<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 164 (Wednesday, August 26, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 164 (Wednesday, August 26, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 55015-55027]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-17391]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

50 CFR Part 217

[Docket No. 260820-0009]
RIN 0648-BN42


Takes of Marine Mammals Incidental to Specified Activities; 
Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to the Duckabush Estuary Restoration 
Project in Washington

AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce.

ACTION: Final rule; notification of issuance of Letter of 
Authorization.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: NMFS, upon request from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
(USACE) issues this final rule pursuant to the Marine Mammal Protection 
Act (MMPA), to govern the taking of marine mammals incidental to the 
Duckabush Estuary Restoration Project (DERP) in Hood Canal, Washington 
over 5 years (2027-2032). This final rule, which allows for the 
issuance of a 5-year letter of authorization (LOA) allowing for the 
incidental take of marine mammals during the described activities and 
timeframes, prescribes the permissible methods of taking and other 
means of effecting the least practicable adverse impact on marine 
mammal species and their habitat, and establishes requirements 
pertaining to the monitoring and reporting of such taking.

DATES: Effective from July 9, 2027, through July 8, 2032.

ADDRESSES: Electronic copies of the application and supporting 
documents, the proposed rule and associated public comments, as well as 
a list of the references cited in this document, may be obtained online 
at: https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/action/

[[Page 55016]]

incidental-take-authorization-us-army-corps-engineers-duckabush-
estuary-restoration-project. In case of problems accessing these 
documents, please call the contact listed below.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Pauline, Office of Protected 
Resources, NMFS, (301) 427-8401.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Purpose for Regulatory Action

    These regulations, promulgated under the authority of the Marine 
Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), establish a 
framework for NMFS to authorize the take of marine mammals incidental 
to construction activities associated with the DERP project in Hood 
Canal, Washington.

Legal Authority for the Action

    The MMPA prohibits the ``take'' of marine mammals, with certain 
exceptions. Section 101(a)(5)(A) of the MMPA (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(5)(A)) 
directs the Secretary of Commerce, as delegated to NMFS, to allow, upon 
request, the incidental, but not intentional, taking of small numbers 
of marine mammals by U.S. citizens who engage in a specified activity 
(other than commercial fishing) within a specified geographical region 
for up to 5 years if, after notice and public comment, the agency makes 
certain findings and promulgates regulations that set forth permissible 
methods of taking pursuant to that activity and other means of 
effecting the ``least practicable adverse impact'' on the affected 
species or stocks and their habitat (see Mitigation section), as well 
as monitoring and reporting requirements.

Summary of Major Provisions Within the Rule

    Following is a summary of the major provisions of this rule 
regarding USACE's activities. These provisions include measures 
requiring:
    <bullet> Performance of construction work only during daylight 
hours when visual monitoring of marine mammals can be implemented;
    <bullet> Gradually increasing time periods dedicated to 
construction activities each day throughout the day to reduce the risk 
of potentially startling marine mammals;
    <bullet> Conducting 30 minutes of pre- and post-activity monitoring 
associated with pile installation or removal activities;
    <bullet> Establishment and monitoring by protected species 
observers (PSOs) of a 300-meter observation zone for all construction 
activities;
    <bullet> Halting construction activity: (1) if a marine mammal 
comes within 10 meters of operations of heavy equipment; or (2) a pup 
less than one week old comes within 20 meters of where heavy machinery 
is operating; and
    <bullet> Not initiating construction activities within 300 meters 
of a mother-pup pair that is hauled out, or within 100 meters of a 
mother-pup pair in the water.
    Through adaptive management, the regulations will allow NMFS to 
modify (e.g., remove, revise, or add to) the existing mitigation, 
monitoring, or reporting measures summarized above and required by the 
LOA.

Background

    The MMPA prohibits the ``take'' of marine mammals, with certain 
exceptions. Section 101(a)(5)(A) and (D) of the MMPA (16 U.S.C. 1361 et 
seq.) direct the Secretary of Commerce (as delegated to NMFS) to allow, 
upon request, the incidental, but not intentional, taking of small 
numbers of marine mammals by U.S. citizens who engage in a specified 
activity (other than commercial fishing) within a specified 
geographical region if certain findings are made and either regulations 
are promulgated or an incidental harassment authorization is issued.
    Authorization for incidental takings shall be granted if NMFS finds 
that the taking will have a negligible impact on the species or 
stock(s) and will not have an unmitigable adverse impact on the 
availability of the species or stock(s) for taking for subsistence uses 
(where relevant). If such findings are made, NMFS must prescribe 
permissible methods of taking; other ``means of effecting the least 
practicable adverse impact'' on the affected species or stocks and 
their habitat, paying particular attention to rookeries, mating 
grounds, and areas of similar significance, and on the availability of 
the species or stocks for taking for certain subsistence uses (referred 
to in shorthand as ``mitigation''); and requirements pertaining to the 
monitoring and reporting of the takings. The definitions of all 
applicable MMPA statutory terms cited above are included in the 
relevant sections below and can be found in section 3 of the MMPA (16 
U.S.C. 1362) and NMFS regulations at 50 CFR 216.103.

Summary of Request

    On April 17, 2024, NMFS received a request from the USACE for 
regulations and a subsequent LOA to take marine mammals incidental to 
construction activities related to the DERP in Washington. A revised 
application was submitted on September 27, 2024. We determined the 
application was adequate and complete on November 19, 2024. On November 
25, 2024, we published a notice of receipt of the USACE's application 
in the Federal Register, requesting comments and information related to 
the request for 30 days (89 FR 92907). We received no public comments. 
On August 15, 2025, we published the proposed rule in the Federal 
Register (90 FR 39346) and requested comments and information from the 
public. NMFS reviewed the submitted material and considered it for 
promulgation of these regulations.

Description of the Specified Activities

    A detailed description of the USACE's planned activities are 
provided in the proposed rule (90 FR 39346, August 15, 2025). Since 
publication of the proposed rule, the USACEC has not made any 
modifications to their specified activities; therefore, we refer the 
reader to the proposed rule for a detailed description of the specified 
activities. Mitigation, monitoring, and reporting measures proposed by 
the USACE and included in this final rule are also described in detail 
in the proposed rule and summarized later in this document (please see 
Mitigation and Monitoring and Reporting). Note that the effective dates 
of the regulations and LOA in the proposed rule (90 FR 39346) were 
listed as July 30, 2026, through July 29, 2031.
    The project has been delayed by one year due to the inability of 
the USACE to secure funding during the 2026 budget cycle. Therefore, 
the applicant requested new effective dates of July 9, 2027, through 
July 8, 2032. These new effective dates have been authorized by NMFS. 
The delay of the project by one year (2026 to 2027) and the change in 
the effective start date by several weeks (July 30 compared to July 9) 
will not affect any additional species or have any impact on the life 
cycle of harbor seals. The one-year delay and change of effective start 
dates during Year 1 of the LOA is not expected to affect our analysis 
in any way. The species affected, number of animals authorized for 
take, and mitigation and monitoring requirement remain unchanged.
    Additional details on the specified activities are available in the 
proposed rule (90 FR 39346, August 15, 2025).

Specified Geographic Region

    The specified geographic region is Hood Canal in Puget Sound. 
Details regarding this area can be found in the proposed rule (90 FR 
39346, August 15, 2025).

Comments and Responses

    During the 30-day comment period, we received a single comment 
letter from a member of the public that

[[Page 55017]]

contained three separate comments. NMFS has reviewed and considered all 
relevant comments received on the proposed rule and issuance of the 
LOA. All substantive, relevant comments and our responses are described 
below.
    Comment 1: The commenter wrote that construction activities could 
negatively impact marine mammals and that even a ``small number'' of 
takes could lead to disruptions in feeding, breeding, and migratory 
patterns, which could have lasting consequences for the population.
    Response: Section 101(a)(5)(A) of the MMPA requires NMFS to make a 
determination that the take incidental to a ``specified activity'' will 
have a negligible impact on the affected species or stocks of marine 
mammals. NMFS' implementing regulations 50 CFR 216.104(a)(1) require 
applicants to include in their request a detailed description of the 
specified activity or class of activities that can be expected to 
result in incidental taking of marine mammals. NMFS has defined 
negligible impact as an impact resulting from the specified activity 
that cannot be reasonably expected to, and is not reasonably likely to, 
adversely affect the species or stock through effects on annual rates 
of recruitment or survival (50 CFR 216.103). A negligible impact 
finding is based on the lack of likely adverse effects on annual rates 
of recruitment or survival (i.e., population-level effects). An 
estimate of the number of takes alone is not enough information on 
which to base an impact determination. In addition to considering 
estimates of the number of marine mammals that might be ``taken'' 
through harassment, NMFS considers other factors, such as the likely 
nature of any impacts or responses (e.g., intensity, duration), the 
context of any impacts or responses (e.g., critical reproductive time 
or location, foraging impacts affecting energetics), as well as effects 
on habitat, and the likely effectiveness of the mitigation. We also 
assess the number, intensity, and context of estimated takes by 
evaluating this information relative to population status. In this 
instance, NMFS has determined that the USACE's planned activities will 
have a negligible impact on harbor seals in the project area.
    NMFS is also required to make a small numbers determination. NMFS 
explains the concept of ``small numbers'' in recognition that there 
could also be quantities of individuals taken that would correspond 
with ``medium'' and ``large'' numbers. As such, for an individual 
incidental take authorization, NMFS considers that one-third of the 
most appropriate population abundance number--as compared with the 
assumed number of individuals taken--is an appropriate limit with 
regard to ``small numbers.'' This relative approach is consistent with 
relevant case law. See Center for Biological Diversity v. Salazar, 695 
F.3d 893, 907 (9th Cir. 2012) (holding that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service reasonably interpreted ``small numbers'' by analyzing take in 
relative or proportional terms). As noted above, there is no biological 
significance associated with ``small numbers'' and, as such, NMFS 
appropriately does not consider ``conservation status'' or other issues 
related to the status of a species or stock in making its small numbers 
finding. Instead, these concepts are considered as part of the 
negligible impact analysis described previously. The USACE requested, 
and NMFS has authorized, incidental take that amounts to no more than 
14.3 percent of the Washington Inland Hood Canal stock of harbor seals, 
which is less than one-third of the stock's population abundance.
    Comment 2: The commenter stated that the five-year period of 
incidental takes allowed under an LOA in such a sensitive area raises 
concerns about the cumulative impact on marine mammal populations. They 
stated that the risk of compounding negative effects over time--
especially in a confined area like Hood Canal--demands a more cautious, 
conservative approach to project approval, as the ecological 
consequences of such disruptions may not become evident until it is too 
late to reverse the damage.
    Response: Neither the MMPA nor NMFS' codified implementing 
regulations require consideration of other unrelated activities and 
their impacts on marine mammal populations. The preamble for NMFS' 
implementing regulations (54 FR 40338, September 29, 1989) states in 
response to comments that the impacts from other past and ongoing 
anthropogenic activities are to be incorporated into the negligible 
impact analysis via their impacts on the baseline. Consistent with that 
direction, NMFS has factored into its negligible impact analysis the 
impacts of other past and ongoing anthropogenic activities via their 
impacts on the baseline (e.g., as reflected in the density, 
distribution and status of the species, population size and growth 
rate, and other relevant stressors). The 1989 final rule for the MMPA 
implementing regulations also addressed public comments regarding 
cumulative effects from future, unrelated activities. There, NMFS 
stated that such effects are not considered in making findings under 
MMPA section 101(a)(5) concerning negligible impact.
    Comment 3: The commenter stated that an incidental take 
authorization may overlook the availability of alternatives that could 
prevent the need for any take of marine mammals and should be designed 
in such a way that minimizes its impact on wildlife and prioritizes the 
health of marine ecosystems without resorting to take authorizations. 
The goal should be to avoid take altogether, not merely to manage or 
mitigate it after the fact. The commenter further asserted that the 
precautionary principle demands that we prioritize the protection of 
vulnerable marine species, especially in ecologically sensitive areas 
like Hood Canal.
    Response: Neither the MMPA nor NMFS' implementing regulations 
include discussion or requirements related to a ``precautionary 
principle.'' NMFS must process requests for incidental take regulations 
in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 101(a)(5)(A) of 
the MMPA, which establishes specific criteria for when incidental take 
must be authorized. NMFS is not required under the MMPA to avoid take 
altogether. As described above, NMFS has determined that the planned 
activities will have a negligible impact on affected species or stocks. 
Furthermore, NMFS has not overlooked the availability of alternatives. 
As required under the MMPA, NMFS has prescribed the permissible methods 
of taking and other ``means of effecting the least practicable adverse 
impact'' on the affected species or stocks and their habitat.
    The USACE would be unable to conduct their planned construction 
activities without being in violation of the MMPA if all incidental 
take of marine mammals was prohibited.

Changes From Proposed to Final Rule

    The Level 2 Reaction Code in table 4 of this notice has been 
revised to include the following language: ``Movements in response to 
the source of disturbance, ranging from short withdrawals at least 
twice the animal's body length to longer retreats, or if already moving 
a change of direction of greater than 90 degrees.'' The text has been 
updated from that in the proposed rule to match the most recent 
standardized language that is being utilized across all incidental take 
authorizations that incorporate the Marine Mammal Reaction Code. The 
Marine Mammal Reaction Code is used to classify the response of an 
animal to external stimuli. There are no

[[Page 55018]]

substantive changes accompanying the language update.
    An incorrect value of 13.1 percent of the percentage of stock taken 
was listed in the Small Numbers section of the proposed rule (90 FR 
39346). We are making a technical correction to revise this value to 
14.3 percent in the Small Numbers section of this notice and in table 
3.
    The effective dates of the regulations and LOA in the proposed rule 
(90 FR 39346) were listed as July 30, 2026, through July 29, 2031. 
Because the project has been delayed by one year, we changed the 
effective dates to July 9, 2027, through July 8, 2032. Since the 
project was delayed for one year, table 3 in this notice, Authorized 
Takes by Level B Harassment Annually, covers the years 2027-2030 while 
table 3 in the proposed notice covered the years 2026 through 2029 (90 
FR 39346).
    Under the Monitoring and Reporting section of the proposed rule (90 
FR 39346), language pertaining to the reporting of dead or injured 
animals was accidentally omitted. The appropriate language has been 
included in the Monitoring and Reporting section and regulations in 
this final rule. This is standard language included in all incidental 
take authorizations where there is the possibility of observing dead or 
injured animals and was inadvertently omitted from the proposed rule.

Description of Marine Mammals in the Specified Geographic Region

    A single species of marine mammal may be taken by harassment 
incidental to the USACE's specified activities. A complete description 
of marine mammals status and trends, life history, habitat use, and 
threats is included in the USACE's application and NMFS' proposed rule 
(90 FR 39346). NMFS is not aware of any new relevant information since 
publication of the proposed rule. Please refer to the proposed rule for 
detailed descriptions of marine mammals in the project area.
    Table 1 lists all species or stocks for which take is expected and 
has been authorized by NMFS for this activity and summarizes 
information related to the population or stock, including regulatory 
status under the MMPA and Endangered Species Act (ESA) and potential 
biological removal (PBR), where known. PBR is defined by the MMPA as 
the maximum number of animals, not including natural mortalities, that 
may be removed from a marine mammal stock while allowing that stock to 
reach or maintain its optimum sustainable population (as described in 
NMFS' stock assessment reports). All values presented in table 1 are 
the most recent available at the time of publication (available online 
at: <a href="https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/marine-mammal-protection/marine-mammal-stock-assessments">https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/marine-mammal-protection/marine-mammal-stock-assessments</a>).

                    Table 1--Marine Mammal Species \1\ Likely To Occur Near the Project Area That May Be Taken by USACE's Activities
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                Stock abundance
                                                                                           ESA/MMPA status;     (CV, Nmin, most                Annual M/
             Common name                    Scientific name               Stock             strategic (Y/N)    recent abundance       PBR       SI \4\
                                                                                                  \2\             survey) \3\
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               Order Carnivora--Pinnipedia
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Family Phocidae (earless seals):
    Harbor Seal......................  Phoca vitulina..........  Washington Inland Hood   -, -, N                   3,363 (0.16,          88           2
                                                                  Canal.                                        2,940, 2019) \5\
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\1\ Information on the classification of marine mammal species can be found on the web page for The Society for Marine Mammalogy's Committee on Taxonomy
  at: <a href="https://marinemammalscience.org/science-and-publications/list-marine-mammal-species-subspecies">https://marinemammalscience.org/science-and-publications/list-marine-mammal-species-subspecies</a>.
\2\ ESA status: Endangered (E), Threatened (T)/MMPA status: Depleted (D). A dash (-) indicates that the species is not listed under the ESA or
  designated as depleted under the MMPA. Under the MMPA, a strategic stock is one for which the level of direct human-caused mortality exceeds PBR or
  which is determined to be declining and likely to be listed under the ESA within the foreseeable future. Any species or stock listed under the ESA is
  automatically designated under the MMPA as depleted and as a strategic stock.
\3\ NMFS marine mammal SARs online at: <a href="https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/marine-mammal-protection/marine-mammal-stock-assessment-reports-region">https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/marine-mammal-protection/marine-mammal-stock-assessment-reports-region</a>.
  CV is coefficient of variation; Nmin is the minimum estimate of stock abundance.
\4\ These values, found in NMFS's SARs, represent annual levels of human-caused mortality plus serious injury from all sources combined (e.g.,
  commercial fisheries, ship strike). Annual M/SI often cannot be determined precisely and is in some cases presented as a minimum value or range.
\5\ These values were presented in the 2023 Draft Marine Mammal SAR. However, the draft 2023 SAR for the Washington Inland Waters harbor seal stocks,
  including the Hood Canal stock was not finalized as part of the 2023 Final SAR (89 FR 104989, December 26, 2024) given that the Pearson et al. (2024)
  estimates of abundance and trends remain unpublished at the time of publication. This SAR will be revised in a subsequent cycle when the abundance
  estimates for these stocks are published. However, this remains the best available information for use in evaluating effects to this stock of harbor
  seals.

Potential Effects of Specified Activities on Marine Mammals and Their 
Habitat

    The effects of visual and acoustic stimuli generated by the 
presence and operation of assorted DERP construction equipment as well 
as the presence of personnel, has the potential to cause Level B 
harassment of pinnipeds in the DERP project area. The proposed rule 
included a discussion of the effects of these stimuli from the planned 
activities on marine mammals and their habitat (90 FR 39346). There is 
no newly available relevant information that would change our analyses 
or the results thereof.

Estimated Take of Marine Mammals

    This section provides an estimate of the number of incidental takes 
authorized through the LOA, which will inform NMFS' consideration of 
``small numbers,'' the negligible impact determinations, and impacts on 
subsistence uses.
    Harassment is the only type of take expected to result from these 
activities. Except with respect to certain activities not pertinent 
here, section 3(18) of the MMPA (16 U.S.C. 1362(18)) defines 
``harassment'' as any act of pursuit, torment, or annoyance, which (i) 
has the potential to injure a marine mammal or marine mammal stock in 
the wild (Level A harassment); or (ii) has the potential to disturb a 
marine mammal or marine mammal stock in the wild by causing disruption 
of behavioral patterns, including, but not limited to, migration, 
breathing, nursing, breeding, feeding, or sheltering (Level B 
harassment).
    Authorized takes would be by Level B harassment only, in the form 
of behavioral reactions for individual marine mammals resulting from 
exposure to visual or acoustic disturbance associated with various 
construction equipment and personnel or protected species observers 
(PSOs). Based on the nature of the activity, Level A harassment is 
neither anticipated nor authorized.
    As described previously, no serious injury or mortality is 
anticipated or authorized for this activity. Below we

[[Page 55019]]

describe how the take numbers were estimated.

Acoustic Impacts

    There is very limited potential for impacts from underwater noise 
to result in harassment of pinnipeds. As noted previously, nearly all 
construction would be land-based. Pile driving within a wetted channel 
is only planned at a single location among the river channels and other 
permanently inundated areas in the project area. A vibratory driver 
will be used to remove bridge piers within the wetted river channel 
during the demolition of the existing north Highway 101 bridge (see 
figure 12 in the USACE's application). The USACE, in consultation with 
NMFS, concluded that the meandering path of the river at this location 
will adequately prevent direct propagation of underwater noise to the 
nearest haulout site and, while it is possible that underwater noise 
from pile-driving could potentially result in take, it is not 
considered likely and will be adequately addressed through our 
consideration of the effects of other, more likely causes of 
disturbance to seals.
    All other vibratory and impact pile driving will occur on solid 
ground and will either occur during low tide or will be isolated from 
water using the existing Highway 101 causeway, cofferdams, or aquadams, 
thereby dampening propagation of sound through the substrate. For in-
air sounds, NMFS has established a threshold of received levels above 
90 dB re 20 [mu]Pa (rms) that could result in behavioral harassment 
(Level B harassment) of harbor seals. The actual measured in-air Lmax 
(dBA) at 50 feet (15.24 m) for vibratory and impact pile drivers is 101 
dB (FHWA 2017). Noise attenuates as the distance from the source of the 
noise increases. A general equation shows noise propagation loss as 7.5 
dB for each doubling of distance in areas where landscape features and 
vegetation exist (WSDOT 2020). Additionally, the following equation can 
be used to determine construction noise levels at a specific distance 
from the source (WSDOT 2020):
    Lmax = the Construction Lmax at 50 feet (15.24 m)-25 * Log(D/Do). 
In this equation, Lmax = the highest A-weighted sound level occurring 
during a noise event during the time that noise is being measured; 50 
feet (15.24 m) = the reference measurement distance; and D = the 
distance from the noise source.
    Do = the reference measurement distance (50 feet (15.24 m) in this 
case). Using this equation, a 101 dB vibratory or impact pile driver 
will attenuate to 90 dB after 54 m (177 ft). The nearest vibratory pile 
driving site in the project area is about 265 m (870 ft) from known 
harbor seal haulout sites at the Duckabush River estuary. Therefore, 
Level B harassment from airborne noise could only occur if a seal left 
their haulout site and proceeded to within 54 m (177 ft) of an active 
pile driving site.

Marine Mammal Occurrence

    In this section we provide information about the occurrence of 
marine mammals, including abundance or other relevant information which 
will inform the take calculations.
    WDFW conducts regular aerial surveys of hauled out harbor seals in 
the Hood Canal, typically restricting monitoring to the peak of the 
pupping period and the window two hours before and after high tides to 
maximize the number of individuals on land. The USACE utilized 
unpublished WDFW data from 2021-2023 (USACE, 2024) as well as aerial 
survey information of hauled out harbor seals at Duckabush River in 
2013 and 2014 (Jeffries et al. 2014) to estimate harbor seal abundance. 
Table 2 summarizes the results from both surveys.
    From 2021-2023, an average of 86 seals hauled out at the Duckabush 
River estuary during the pupping season, with a maximum daily count of 
130 seals. Harbor seal counts during the molting season peaked at 23 
per day although data during this period is limited. Available count 
data outside of the critical life history periods of pupping and 
molting season is also limited but indicated scarce usage of Duckabush 
River estuary haulout sites during the daytime for this period.

                                Table 2--Harbor Seal Counts at Duckabush Estuary
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Date                             Year            Pups           Adults        Total count
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
February 4......................................            2014               0               0           \a\ 0
March 13........................................            2013               0               0           \a\ 0
March 21........................................            2013               0               7           \a\ 7
July 23.........................................            2013               0               0           \a\ 0
August 26.......................................            2013              17              60          \a\ 77
August 27.......................................            2013              21              78          \a\ 99
September 21....................................            2023               3             127         \b\ 130
September 22....................................            2023               2              94          \b\ 96
September 28....................................            2021               2              85          \b\ 87
September 29....................................            2022               4             111         \b\ 115
October 17......................................            2023               1               3           \a\ 4
November 6......................................            2013               0              23          \a\ 23
November 8......................................            2013               0              13          \a\ 13
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Count source: \a\--Jeffries et al. (2014),
\b\ --WDFW (unpublished).

Take Estimation

    Here, we describe how the information provided above is synthesized 
to produce a quantitative estimate of the take that is reasonably 
likely to occur and which will be authorized by NMFS.
    Since there is no previous data on how harbor seals react to 
construction activities at the Duckabush River estuary, take rates from 
an analogous project were utilized to estimate take. The Elkhorn Slough 
Tidal Marsh Restoration Project in Monterey County, California is a 
similar wetland restoration project involving land-based construction 
near harbor seal haulout sites (CDFW 2021). NMFS has issued IHAs for 
all three phases of this project, all authorizing take by Level B 
harassment of harbor seals resulting from similar disturbances as 
considered here, including the use of haul trucks, dozers, backhoes, 
loaders, and excavators. The objective of both projects is to restore 
tidal marshes that have been altered by past land use practices. The 
Elkhorn Slough project is in the process of restoring 147 wetland acres 
while the DMMP project will

[[Page 55020]]

restore 38 acres. Impacts from both projects include the potential for 
Level B harassment of harbor seals by visual disturbance and in-air 
noise.
    Due to the limited harbor seal survey data at the Duckabush River 
estuary, a basic model was used to estimate seal counts throughout the 
year. Using the survey data from table 3, it was assumed that there is 
an increase or decrease in the number of seals, as defined by use of a 
linear function (instead of a block function). This means that every 
day of the year has a unique number of seals based on a linear 
relationship between a specific date on which a certain number of seals 
were actually recorded and the next specific date on which seals were 
recorded. For example, in table 2, there were 99 total seals (pups and 
adults) recorded on August 27, while 130 total seals were recorded on 
September 21. Using a linear relationship, it was assumed that 100.24 
seals were observed on August 28 (one day after the date of recording--
August 27 with 99 seals) observation, while 128.76 seals were observed 
on September 20 (one day before the next actual date of recording--
September 20 with 130 seals). This methodology allows each day of the 
year to have a unique number of assumed seals present. The USACE 
developed a detailed project schedule which identified the number of 
workdays expected to occur for each year of the planned activity, 
ranging from a minimum of 111 days in 2026 to a maximum of 262 days in 
2029. The USACE further identified the specific dates of each year that 
work is planned. The sum of the number of observed seals associated 
with each specified work date was then calculated for each year of the 
authorization.
    Monitoring reports from the Elkhorn Slough Tidal Marsh Restoration 
Project showed that nine percent of harbor seals present were recorded 
as takes in Phase I of the Elkhorn Slough Tidal Marsh Restoration 
Project while 0.7 percent were recorded as takes in Phase II. 
Monitoring data from Phase III of the project is not available, so the 
conservative assumption of nine percent take rate were used to estimate 
realized take. The sum of the number of assumed seals present 
calculated for each year, as described previously, was then multiplied 
by nine percent to provide the calculated annual take estimates shown 
in table 3.

                            Table 3--Authorized Takes by Level B Harassment Annually
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                          Estimated
                                 NMFS stock     Predicted work   Predicted   Estimated     take by     Take % of
             Year                 abundance         dates        work days  total seals    Level B       stock
                                                                              exposed     harassment
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2027.........................           3,363  July 30-                111        4,883          440        13.1
                                                December 31.
2028.........................  ..............  January 1-              261        5,331          480        14.3
                                                December 31.
2029.........................  ..............  January 1-              260        5,310          478        14.2
                                                December 31.
2030.........................  ..............  January 1-              262        5,090          458        13.6
                                                November 7.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    To inform both the negligible impact analysis and the small numbers 
determination, NMFS assesses the maximum number of takes of marine 
mammals that could occur within any given year during the effective LOA 
period. In this calculation, the maximum estimated number of Level B 
harassment takes in any one year (480 in 2027) is used to yield the 
highest number of estimated take that could occur in any year (table 
3). Table 3 also depicts the number of takes requested by the USACE and 
authorized by NMFS relative to the abundance of the Hood Canal stock.

Mitigation

    In order to issue an LOA under section 101(a)(5)(A) of the MMPA, 
NMFS must set forth the permissible methods of taking pursuant to the 
activity, and other means of effecting the least practicable adverse 
impact on the species or stock and its habitat, paying particular 
attention to rookeries, mating grounds, and areas of similar 
significance, and on the availability of the species or stock for 
taking for certain subsistence uses (latter not applicable for this 
action). NMFS regulations require applicants for incidental take 
authorizations to include information about the availability and 
feasibility (economic and technological) of equipment, methods, and 
manner of conducting the activity or other means of effecting the least 
practicable adverse impact upon the affected species or stocks, and 
their habitat (50 CFR 216.104(a)(11)).
    In evaluating how mitigation may or may not be appropriate to 
ensure the least practicable adverse impact on species or stocks and 
their habitat, as well as subsistence uses where applicable, NMFS 
considers two primary factors:
    (1) The manner in which, and the degree to which, the successful 
implementation of the measure(s) is expected to reduce impacts to 
marine mammals, marine mammal species or stocks, and their habitat. 
This considers the nature of the potential adverse impact being 
mitigated (likelihood, scope, range). It further considers the 
likelihood that the measure will be effective if implemented 
(probability of accomplishing the mitigating result if implemented as 
planned), the likelihood of effective implementation (probability 
implemented as planned); and
    (2) The practicability of the measures for applicant 
implementation, which may consider such things as cost and impact on 
operations.
    The mitigation measures described in the following sections will 
apply to the USACE construction activities.
    The USACE shall conduct training between supervisors and crews, the 
PSO team, and relevant USACE staff prior to the start of DERP 
construction so that responsibilities, communication procedures, 
monitoring protocols, and operational procedures are clearly 
understood. If new construction personnel are added to the project, the 
contractor shall ensure that the personnel receive the mandatory 
training before starting work.

Visual Monitoring

    Required monitoring must be conducted by dedicated, trained, NMFS-
approved PSO(s). PSOs shall establish and monitor a 300-meter zone 
around all construction activities. A PSO will be present every day 
when construction activities occur in or near the DERP area. A 30-
minute pre-clearance observation period will occur prior to the start 
of construction activities. Construction may not start until the work 
area is cleared by the PSOs. Monitoring will occur until 30 minutes 
after construction is complete. One or more PSOs will be stationed at 
location(s) offering the best view of four haulout sites and the 
project area as described in the USACE's marine mammal monitoring plan 
(MMMP).
    If environmental conditions deteriorate such that marine mammals 
within the entire shutdown zone (10 m)

[[Page 55021]]

will not be visible (e.g., fog, heavy rain), construction must be 
delayed until the PSO is confident marine mammals within the shutdown 
zone could be detected.

Pre-Construction Clearance and Ramp-up

    A 30-minute pre-clearance observation period must occur prior to 
the start of ramp-up and construction activities. The USACE must adhere 
to the following pre-clearance and ramp-up requirements: (i) 
Construction activities must not be initiated if any marine mammal is 
within 10 m of planned operations. If a marine mammal is observed 
within 10 m of planned operations during the 30-minute pre-clearance 
period, ramp-up must not begin until the animal(s) has been observed 
exiting the zones or until an additional time period has elapsed with 
no further sightings; and (ii) Construction activities may not be 
initiated within 100 meters of a mother-pup pair in the water.
    To reduce the risk of potentially startling marine mammals with a 
sudden intensive sound, the contractor will ramp-up construction 
activities gradually each day by moving around the project area and 
starting equipment one at a time.

Shutdown Requirements

    For heavy machinery work, if a marine mammal comes within 10 meters 
of such operations, operations must cease work or will not be initiated 
until the marine mammal has moved outside the 10-meter buffer. During 
pupping season (August 1-October 31) construction activities may not be 
initiated: (1) Within 300 meters of a mom/pup pair that is hauled out, 
or (2) within 100 meters of a mom/pup pair in the water. If a pup less 
than 1 week old (neonate) comes within 20 meters of where heavy 
machinery is working, construction activities in that area must be shut 
down or delayed until the pup has left the area.
    Activities must cease if a marine mammal species for which take was 
not authorized, or a species for which authorization was granted but 
the authorized number of takes have been met, is observed by PSOs 
approaching or within the Level B harassment zone. Activities must not 
resume until the animal is confirmed to have left the area.
    NMFS has determined that the mitigation measures contained within 
this final rule will provide the means of effecting the least 
practicable adverse impact on the affected species or stocks and their 
habitat, paying particular attention to rookeries, mating grounds, and 
areas of similar significance.

Monitoring and Reporting

    In order to issue an LOA for an activity, section 101(a)(5)(A) of 
the MMPA states that NMFS must set forth requirements pertaining to the 
monitoring and reporting of such taking. The MMPA implementing 
regulations at 50 CFR 216.104(a)(13) require that requests for 
authorizations include the suggested means of accomplishing the 
necessary monitoring and reporting that will result in increased 
knowledge of the species and of the level of taking or impacts on 
populations of marine mammals that are expected to be present while 
conducting the activities. Effective reporting is critical both to 
compliance as well as ensuring that the most value is obtained from the 
required monitoring.
    Monitoring and reporting requirements prescribed by NMFS should 
contribute to improved understanding of one or more of the following:
    <bullet> Occurrence of marine mammal species or stocks in the area 
in which take is anticipated (e.g., presence, abundance, distribution, 
density);
    <bullet> Nature, scope, or context of likely marine mammal exposure 
to potential stressors/impacts (individual or cumulative, acute or 
chronic), through better understanding of: (1) action or environment 
(e.g., source characterization, propagation, ambient noise); (2) 
affected species (e.g., life history, dive patterns); (3) co-occurrence 
of marine mammal species with the activity; or (4) biological or 
behavioral context of exposure (e.g., age, calving or feeding areas);
    <bullet> Individual marine mammal responses (behavioral or 
physiological) to acoustic stressors (acute, chronic, or cumulative), 
other stressors, or cumulative impacts from multiple stressors;
    <bullet> How anticipated responses to stressors impact either: (1) 
long-term fitness and survival of individual marine mammals; or (2) 
populations, species, or stocks;
    <bullet> Effects on marine mammal habitat (e.g., marine mammal prey 
species, acoustic habitat, or other important physical components of 
marine mammal habitat); and,
    <bullet> Mitigation and monitoring effectiveness.

Visual Monitoring

    PSO monitoring during construction will occur from vantage points 
along the current Highway 101 elevated causeway that allow monitors to 
observe any seals hauling out in the estuary as shown in the Marine 
Mammal Monitoring Plan. The primary observation locations shall be on 
the northern Highway 101 bridge and at the head of the existing estuary 
access path that will become the temporary parking platform. Monitors 
may also traverse along the Highway 101 causeway to obtain clearer 
views of approaching or hauled-out seals, such as from the southern 
Highway 101 bridge or North Parking Area. The observation area for the 
restoration area shall be accessed by foot and used to provide a 
vantage point of the construction area and Duckabush River estuary. 
This observation area includes all restoration areas within 300 meters 
of harbor seal haulout sites.
    The USACE must submit a Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan to NMFS for 
approval at least 90 days in advance of construction. Marine mammal 
monitoring must be conducted in accordance with the conditions in this 
section and the approved Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan. Marine mammal 
monitoring during construction activities must be conducted by 
qualified, NMFS approved PSOs, in accordance with the following:
    <bullet> PSOs must be independent of the activity contractor (for 
example, employed by a subcontractor) and have no other assigned tasks 
during monitoring periods.
    <bullet> At least one PSO must have prior experience performing the 
duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued 
incidental take authorization.
    <bullet> Other PSOs may substitute other relevant experience, 
education (degree in biological science or related field), or training 
for prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction 
activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.
    <bullet> PSOs must be approved by NMFS prior to beginning any 
activity subject to this rule.
    PSOs should have the following additional qualifications:
    <bullet> Ability to conduct field observations and collect data 
according to assigned protocols;
    <bullet> Experience or training in the field identification of 
marine mammals, including the identification of behaviors;
    <bullet> Sufficient training, orientation, or experience with the 
construction operation to provide for personal safety during 
observations;
    <bullet> Writing skills sufficient to prepare a report of 
observations including but not limited to: (1) the number and species 
of marine mammals observed; (2) dates

[[Page 55022]]

and times when in-water construction activities were conducted; (3) 
dates, times, and reason for implementation of mitigation (or why 
mitigation was not implemented when required); and (4) marine mammal 
behavior; and
    <bullet> Ability to communicate orally, by radio or in person, with 
project personnel to provide real-time information on marine mammals 
observed in the area as necessary.

Pre- and Post-Construction Daily Censuses

    A census of marine mammals in the project area and the area 
surrounding the project will be conducted 30 minutes prior to the 
beginning of construction on monitoring days, and again 30 minutes 
after the completion of construction activities. Data collected during 
the pre- and post-construction daily censuses will include:
    <bullet> Environmental conditions (weather condition, tidal 
conditions, visibility, cloud cover, air temperature and wind speed);
    <bullet> Numbers of each marine mammal species spotted;
    <bullet> Location of each species spotted, including distance from 
construction activity;
    <bullet> Status (in water or hauled-out); and
    <bullet> Behavior.

Hourly Counts

    The USACE will conduct hourly counts of animals hauled out and in 
the water. Data collected will include:
    <bullet> Numbers of each species;
    <bullet> Location of species, whether hauled out or in the water; 
and distance from construction activities;
    <bullet> Time;
    <bullet> Tidal conditions;
    <bullet> Time construction activities start and end;
    <bullet> Primary construction activities occurring during past 
hour;
    <bullet> Any noise or visual disturbance;
    <bullet> Number of mom/pup pairs and neonates observed; and
    <bullet> Notable behaviors, including foraging, grooming, resting, 
aggression, mating activity, and others.
    PSOs will take notes including any of the following information to 
the extent it is feasible to record:
    <bullet> Age-class;
    <bullet> Sex;
    <bullet> Unusual activity or signs of stress; and
    <bullet> Any other information worth noting.
    PSOs will record reaction observed in relation to construction 
activities including:
    <bullet> Tally of each reaction;
    <bullet> Time of reaction;
    <bullet> Concurrent construction activity (including duration) and 
assumed cause (whether related to construction activities or not) and 
observer determination as to the source of disturbance, to the extent 
possible;
    <bullet> Location of animal during initial reaction and distance 
from the noted disturbance;
    <bullet> Direction of movement;
    <bullet> Activity before and after disturbance;
    <bullet> Status (in water or hauled out) before and after 
disturbance; and
    <bullet> Coded reaction as shown in table 4.

                                      Table 4--Marine Mammal Reaction Codes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Level                      Type of response                        Definition
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1....................................  Alert..................  Head orientation or brief movement in response
                                                                 to disturbance, which may include turning head
                                                                 towards the disturbance, craning head and neck
                                                                 or craning head and neck while holding the body
                                                                 rigid in a u-shaped position, changing from a
                                                                 lying to a sitting position, or brief movement
                                                                 of less than twice the animal's body length.
                                                                 Alerts would be recorded, but not counted as a
                                                                 `take'.
2 *..................................  Movement...............  Movements in response to the source of
                                                                 disturbance, ranging from short withdrawals at
                                                                 least twice the animal's body length to longer
                                                                 retreats, or if already moving a change of
                                                                 direction of greater than 90 degrees.
3 *..................................  Flush..................  All retreats (flushes) to the water.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Only Levels 2 and 3 are considered take under the MMPA, whereas Level 1 is not.

Reporting

    The USACE must submit a draft monitoring report to NMFS within 90 
calendar days of the completion of each construction year. A draft 
comprehensive 5-year summary report must also be submitted to NMFS 
within 90 days of the end of the effective period of the LOA. The 
reports must detail the monitoring protocol and summarize the data 
recorded during monitoring. Final annual reports and the final 
comprehensive report must be prepared and submitted within 30 days 
following resolution of any NMFS comments on the draft report. If no 
comments are received from NMFS within 30 days of receipt of the draft 
report, the report must be considered final. If comments are received, 
a final report addressing NMFS comments must be submitted within 30 
days after receipt of comments. The annual and final marine mammal 
monitoring reports will include an overall description of work 
completed, a narrative regarding marine mammal sightings, and 
associated PSO data sheets. Specifically, the report must include:
    <bullet> Dates and times (begin and end) of all marine mammal 
monitoring;
    <bullet> Construction activities occurring during each daily 
observation period;
    <bullet> PSO locations during marine mammal monitoring;
    <bullet> Environmental conditions during monitoring periods (at 
beginning and end of PSO shift and whenever conditions change 
significantly), including Beaufort sea state and any other relevant 
weather conditions including cloud cover, fog, sun glare, and overall 
visibility to the horizon, and estimated observable distance;
    <bullet> Upon observation of a marine mammal, the following 
information: (1) name of PSO who sighted the animal(s) and PSO location 
and activity at time of sighting; (2) time of sighting; (3) 
identification of the animal(s) (e.g., genus/species, lowest possible 
taxonomic level, or unidentified); (4) distance and bearing of each 
marine mammal observed relative to the pile being driven for each 
sighting (if pile driving was occurring at time of sighting); (5) 
estimated number of animals (min/max/best estimate); (6) estimated 
number of animals by cohort (e.g., adults, juveniles, neonates, group 
composition, etc.); (7) animal's closest point of approach; and (8) 
description of any marine mammal behavioral observations (e.g., 
observed behaviors such as feeding or traveling), including an 
assessment of behavioral responses thought to have resulted from the 
activity (e.g., no response or changes in behavioral state such as 
ceasing feeding,

[[Page 55023]]

changing direction, flushing, or breaching);
    <bullet> Number of marine mammals detected within the harassment 
zones; and
    <bullet> Detailed information about any implementation of any 
mitigation triggered (e.g., shutdowns and delays), a description of 
specific actions that ensued, and resulting changes in behavior of the 
animal(s), if any.
    The following requirement was unintentionally omitted from the 
proposed rule. It is included here as well as in the regulatory text. 
In the event that personnel involved in the construction activities 
discover an injured or dead marine mammal, the USACE must report the 
incident to the Office of Protected Resources (OPR) and the West Coast 
regional stranding network as soon as feasible. If the death or injury 
was clearly caused by the specified activity, the USACE must 
immediately cease the activities until NMFS OPR is able to review the 
circumstances of the incident and determine what, if any, additional 
measures are appropriate to ensure compliance with the terms of this 
IHA. The USACE must not resume their activities until notified by NMFS. 
The report must include the following information:
    <bullet> Time, date, and location (latitude/longitude) of the first 
discovery (and updated location information if known and applicable);
    <bullet> Species identification (if known) or description of the 
animal(s) involved;
    <bullet> Condition of the animal(s) (including carcass condition if 
the animal is dead);
    <bullet> Observed behaviors of the animal(s), if alive;
    <bullet> If available, photographs or video footage of the 
animal(s); and
    <bullet> General circumstances under which the animal was 
discovered.

Adaptive Management

    The regulations governing the take of marine mammals incidental to 
the USACE's construction activities contain an adaptive management 
component which was described in detail in the proposed rule and is not 
repeated here. The reporting requirements associated with this final 
rule are designed to provide NMFS with monitoring data from completed 
projects to allow consideration of whether any changes are appropriate. 
The use of adaptive management allows NMFS to consider new information 
from different sources to determine (with input from the USACE 
regarding practicability) on an annual or biennial basis if mitigation 
or monitoring measures should be modified (including additions or 
deletions). Mitigation measures could be modified if new data suggests 
that such modifications would have a reasonable likelihood of reducing 
adverse effects to marine mammals and if the measures are practicable.
    The following are some of the possible sources of applicable data 
to be considered through the adaptive management process: (1) results 
from monitoring reports, as required by MMPA authorizations; (2) 
results from general marine mammal and sound research; and (3) any 
information which reveals that marine mammals may have been taken in a 
manner, extent, or number not authorized by these regulations or LOAs 
issued pursuant to these regulations.

Negligible Impact Analysis and Determination

    NMFS has defined negligible impact as an impact resulting from the 
specified activity that cannot be reasonably expected to, and is not 
reasonably likely to, adversely affect the species or stock through 
effects on annual rates of recruitment or survival (50 CFR 216.103). A 
negligible impact finding is based on the lack of likely adverse 
effects on annual rates of recruitment or survival (i.e., population-
level effects). An estimate of the number of takes alone is not enough 
information on which to base an impact determination. In addition to 
considering estimates of the number of marine mammals that might be 
``taken'' through harassment, NMFS considers other factors, such as the 
likely nature of any impacts or responses (e.g., intensity, duration), 
the context of any impacts or responses (e.g., critical reproductive 
time or location, foraging impacts affecting energetics), as well as 
effects on habitat, and the likely effectiveness of the mitigation. We 
also assess the number, intensity, and context of estimated takes by 
evaluating this information relative to population status. Consistent 
with NMFS' implementing regulations (54 FR 40338, September 29, 1989), 
the impacts from other past and ongoing anthropogenic activities are 
incorporated into this analysis via their impacts on the baseline 
(e.g., as reflected in the regulatory status of the species, population 
size and growth rate where known, ongoing sources of human-caused 
mortality, or ambient noise levels).
    The USACE has requested, and NMFS is authorizing take, by Level B 
harassment, of harbor seals from the Washington Inland Hood Canal 
stock. No injuries or mortalities are anticipated to occur as a result 
of the DERP project and none are authorized. Effects on individuals 
that are taken by Level B harassment, on the basis of reports in the 
literature, would likely be localized and limited to reactions such as 
alerts or movements away from the construction area, including flushing 
into the water. Most likely, individuals, if affected at all will 
simply move away from the visual or acoustic stimulus and be 
temporarily displaced from the areas.
    Repeated exposures of individuals to relatively low levels of 
visual and sound disturbance outside of preferred habitat areas are 
unlikely to significantly disrupt critical behaviors or result in 
permanent abandonment of the haulout site. Even repeated Level B 
harassment of some small subset of the overall stock is unlikely to 
result in any significant realized decrease in viability for the 
affected individuals, and thus would not result in any adverse impact 
to the stock as a whole. Level B harassment will be reduced to the 
level of least practicable adverse impact through use of mitigation 
measures described herein. If visual disturbance and low-level sound 
produced by project activities is sufficiently disturbing, animals are 
likely to simply avoid the area while the activity is occurring.
    No adverse effects to habitat or prey species are anticipated 
during or after construction has ended since almost the entirety of 
work will be land-based. There is other suitable habitat nearby where 
harbor seals could temporarily relocate. The restoration of the marsh 
habitat will have no adverse effect on marine mammal habitat, but 
possibly a long-term beneficial effect on habitat and harbor seals by 
improving ecological function of the slough, including increased prey 
availability, higher species diversity, larger fish, and improved 
habitat.
    Harbor seals are not listed as threatened or endangered under the 
ESA and there are no known areas of biological importance in the 
project area. Furthermore, the population of the Hood Canal stock of 
harbor seals has been relatively stable over the past three decades 
(Pearson et al. 2024).
    Taking into account the planned mitigation measures, effects to 
marine mammals are generally expected to be restricted to short-term 
changes in behavior or temporary displacement from haulout sites. There 
are other haulout areas for pinnipeds to temporarily relocate, and 
marine mammals are expected to return to the area shortly after 
activities cease.
    In summary and as described above, the following factors primarily 
support our determination that the impacts

[[Page 55024]]

resulting from this activity are not expected to adversely affect 
harbor seals (or any other species) through effects on annual rates of 
recruitment or survival:
    <bullet> No serious injury, mortality or Level A harassment is 
anticipated or authorized;
    <bullet> Effects of the activities will be limited to localized 
behavioral changes and temporary displacement;
    <bullet> Nominal adverse impacts to pinniped habitat are 
anticipated while improved ecological processes in the estuary will 
result in positive effects to habitat;
    <bullet> No biologically important areas have been identified in 
the project area; and
    <bullet> Mitigation measures are anticipated to be effective in 
minimizing the number and severity of takes by Level B harassment, 
which are expected to be localized.
    Based on the analysis contained herein of the likely effects of the 
specified activity on marine mammals and their habitat, and taking into 
consideration the implementation of the required monitoring and 
mitigation measures, NMFS finds that the total marine mammal take from 
the planned activity will have a negligible impact on all affected 
marine mammal species or stocks.

Small Numbers

    As noted previously, only take of small numbers of marine mammals 
may be authorized under sections 101(a)(5)(A) and (D) of the MMPA for 
specified activities other than military readiness activities. The MMPA 
does not define small numbers and so, in practice, where estimated 
numbers are available, NMFS compares the maximum number of individuals 
taken in any year to the most appropriate estimation of abundance of 
the relevant species or stock in our determination of whether an 
authorization is limited to small numbers of marine mammals. When the 
predicted maximum annual number of individuals to be taken is fewer 
than one-third of the species or stock abundance, the take is 
considered to be of small numbers. Additionally, other qualitative 
factors may be considered in the analysis, such as the temporal or 
spatial scale of the activities.
    Table 3 in this notice demonstrates the maximum number of Level B 
harassment events per year. Our analysis shows that no more than 14.3 
percent of harbor seals could be taken by Level B harassment. The 
numbers of animals authorized to be taken for this stock would be 
considered small relative to the relevant stock's abundances, even if 
each estimated taking occurred to a new individual--an extremely 
unlikely scenario.
    Based on the analysis contained herein of the planned activity 
(including the required mitigation and monitoring measures) and the 
anticipated take of marine mammals, NMFS finds that small numbers of 
marine mammals would be taken relative to the population size of the 
affected species or stocks.

Unmitigable Adverse Impact Analysis and Determination

    There are no relevant subsistence uses of the affected marine 
mammal stocks or species implicated by this action. Therefore, NMFS has 
determined that the total taking of affected species or stocks will not 
have an unmitigable adverse impact on the availability of such species 
or stocks for taking for subsistence purposes.

Endangered Species Act (ESA)

    Section 7(a)(2) of the ESA of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) 
requires that each Federal agency ensure that any action it authorizes, 
funds, or carries out is not likely to jeopardize the continued 
existence of any endangered or threatened species or result in the 
destruction or adverse modification of designated critical habitat. To 
ensure ESA compliance for the issuance of proposed rules, NMFS consults 
internally whenever we propose to authorize take for endangered or 
threatened species.
    No incidental take of ESA-listed species is authorized or expected 
to result from this activity. Therefore, NMFS has determined that 
formal consultation under section 7 of the ESA is not required for this 
action

National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)

    To comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) 
(42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and NOAA Administrative Order (NAO) 216-6A, 
NMFS must evaluate the proposed action (i.e., promulgation of 
regulations and subsequent issuance of a 5-year LOA) and alternatives 
with respect to potential impacts on the human environment.
    This action is consistent with categories of activities identified 
in Categorical Exclusion B4 (Incidental Harassment Authorizations 
(IHAs)) with no anticipated serious injury or mortality) of the 
Companion Manual for NAO 216-6A, which do not individually or 
cumulatively have the potential for significant impacts on the quality 
of the human environment and for which we have not identified any 
extraordinary circumstances that would preclude this categorical 
exclusion. Accordingly, NMFS has determined that issuance of the final 
rule qualifies to be categorically excluded from further NEPA review.

Classification

Executive Order 12866

    The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has determined that this 
final rule is significant under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866. 
USACE's planned activities would support the construction of a new 
eight-span Highway 101 bridge across the Duckabush estuary. The 
existing bridge crossing will be removed. The activities would create 
economic benefits by improving the stream of commerce along Highway 
101, which serves as a vital economic lifeline for Washington's Olympic 
Peninsula, generating hundreds of millions of dollars annually through 
robust tourism and critical freight and commercial transport. USACE 
initiated the request for an MMPA incidental take authorization, which 
suggests that it is relying on NMFS' authorization to proceed with its 
proposed action. While a MMPA incidental take authorization is not a 
pre-condition for conducting the proposed action (USACE is ultimately 
responsible for this decision), it would provide USACE with two key 
benefits: (1) a legal exemption from the MMPA's general prohibition on 
the take of marine mammals (assuming USACE complies with the terms and 
conditions of its authorization); and (2) regulatory certainty because 
USACE will be fully cognizant of NMFS' expectations in regard to the 
steps needed to be taken to address risks to marine mammals and how to 
minimize its legal exposure under the statute. USACE will also incur 
costs to comply with certain mitigation and monitoring requirements, as 
required by the MMPA. Despite the additional costs of such measures, 
the costs related to MMPA compliance during USACE's activities are 
small compared with expenditures on other aspects of construction and 
operations, and direct compliance costs of the regulatory requirements 
are unlikely to result in material impacts to the project.
    In addition, cost savings may be generated by the reduced 
administrative effort required to obtain a LOA under the framework 
established by a rule compared to what would be required to obtain 
annual incidental harassment authorizations (IHA) under section 
101(a)(5)(D). Absent the rule, to attain

[[Page 55025]]

equivalent compliance with the MMPA, USACE would need to apply for IHAs 
annually over the duration of their activities. Although not monetized, 
NMFS' analysis indicates that the upfront work associated with the rule 
(e.g., analyses, modeling, process for obtaining an LOA valid for 5 
years) likely saves significant time and money for both NMFS and USACE.
    In addition, some degree of benefits can be expected to accrue 
solely via ecological benefits to marine mammals and other wildlife as 
a result of this rulemaking. The published literature is clear that 
healthy populations of marine mammals and other co-existing species 
benefit regional economies and provide social welfare benefits to 
people. However, the literature does not provide a basis for 
quantitatively valuing the cost of anticipated incremental changes in 
environmental disturbance and marine mammal harassment associated with 
the rule.

Executive Order 14192

    This rule is considered an Executive Order 14192 deregulatory 
action. The promulgation of incidental take regulations under MMPA 
section 101(a)(5)(A) of the MMPA allows an otherwise prohibited action 
(i.e., the taking of marine mammals), which increases flexibility and 
reduces burden.

Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA)

    Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) 
(5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Chief Counsel for Regulation of the 
Department of Commerce certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of 
the Small Business Administration at the proposed rule stage that this 
rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities. The USACE is the only entity that will be 
subject to the requirements in these regulations. The USACE is not a 
small governmental jurisdiction, small organization, or small business 
as defined by the RFA. No comments were received that would affect this 
certification. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not 
required and none has been prepared.

Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA)

    This final rule does not contain a collection-of-information 
requirement subject to the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act 
(PRA) because the applicant is a Federal agency.

List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 217

    Administrative practice and procedure, Endangered and threatened 
species, Fish, Fisheries, Marine mammals, Reporting and recordkeeping 
requirements, Wildlife.

    Dated: August 21, 2026.
Samuel D. Rauch III,
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Programs, National Marine 
Fisheries Service.

    For the reasons set forth in the preamble, NMFS amends 50 CFR part 
217 as follows:

PART 217--REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS 
INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES

0
1. The authority citation for part 217 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq., unless otherwise noted.


0
2. Add subpart Y to part 217 to read as follows:

Subpart Y--Taking of Marine Mammals Incidental to Specified 
Activities; Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to the Duckabush 
Estuary Restoration Project in Washington

Sec.
217.240 Specified activity and geographical region.
217.241 Effective dates.
217.242 Permissible methods of taking.
217.243 Prohibitions.
217.244 Mitigation requirements.
217.245 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
217.246 Letters of Authorization.
217.247 Renewals and modifications of Letters of Authorization.
217.248-217.249 [Reserved]


Sec.  217.240  Specified activity and geographical region.

    (a) Regulations in this subpart apply only to the United States 
Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) and those persons it authorizes or 
funds to conduct activities on its behalf for the taking of marine 
mammals that occur in the areas outlined in paragraph (b) of this 
section and that occur incidental to construction activities, including 
maintenance and replacement of piles, as designated in the Duckabush 
Estuary Restoration Project in Washington. Requirements imposed on the 
USACE pursuant to this subpart must be implemented by those persons it 
authorizes or funds to conduct activities on its behalf.
    (b) The taking of marine mammals by the USACE may be authorized in 
a Letter of Authorization (LOA) only if it occurs as part of the 
Duckabush Estuary Restoration Project in Washington.


Sec.  217.241  Effective dates.

    Regulations in this subpart are effective from July 9, 2027 through 
July 8, 2032.


Sec.  217.242  Permissible methods of taking.

    Under an LOA issued pursuant to Sec. Sec.  216.106 of this chapter 
and 217.246 of this chapter, the Holder of the LOA (hereinafter 
``USACE'') may incidentally, but not intentionally, take marine mammals 
within the area described in Sec.  217.240 (b) by harassment associated 
with construction activities, provided the activity is in compliance 
with all terms, conditions, and requirements of the regulations in this 
subpart and the applicable LOA.


Sec.  217.243  Prohibitions.

    (a) Except for the takings contemplated in Sec.  217.242 and 
authorized by an LOA issued under this subpart, it is unlawful for any 
person to do any of the following in connection with the activities 
described in Sec.  217.240:
    (1) Violate, or fail to comply with, the terms, conditions, and 
requirements of this subpart or a LOA issued under this subpart;
    (2) Take any marine mammal not specified in such LOA;
    (3) Take any marine mammal specified in such LOA in any manner 
other than as specified;
    (4) Take a marine mammal specified in such LOA if NMFS determines 
such taking results in more than a negligible impact on the species or 
stocks of such marine mammal; or
    (5) Take a marine mammal specified in such LOA after NMFS 
determines such taking results in an unmitigable adverse impact on the 
species or stock of such marine mammal for taking for subsistence uses.
    (b) [Reserved]


Sec.  217.244  Mitigation requirements.

    (a) When conducting the activities identified in Sec.  217.240(a), 
the mitigation measures contained in any LOA issued under this subpart 
must be implemented. These mitigation measures include but are not 
limited to:
    (1) A copy of this LOA must be in the possession of the USACE, 
supervisory construction personnel, lead protected species observers 
(PSOs), and any other relevant designees of the USACE operating under 
the authority of this LOA at all times that activities subject to this 
LOA are being conducted.
    (2) The USACE shall conduct training between supervisors and crews, 
the PSO team, and relevant USACE staff prior to the start of 
construction activity subject to this rule, so that responsibilities,

[[Page 55026]]

communication procedures, monitoring protocols, and operational 
procedures are clearly understood. New personnel joining during the 
project must be trained in the aforementioned matters prior to 
commencing work.
    (3) The USACE must employ PSOs and establish monitoring locations 
as described in the Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan. The USACE must 
monitor the Project Area to the maximum extent possible based on the 
required number of PSOs, required monitoring locations, and 
environmental conditions.
    (4) Monitoring must take place from 30 minutes prior to initiation 
of pile driving activity (i.e., pre-start clearance monitoring) through 
30 minutes post-completion of construction activity.
    (5) Pre-start clearance monitoring must be conducted during periods 
of visibility sufficient for the lead PSO to determine that the 
shutdown zones are clear of marine mammals. Construction activity may 
commence following 30 minutes of observation when the shutdown zones 
are clear of marine mammals.
    (6) Construction activities must stop if a marine mammal is in a 
shutdown zone and may not resume until a marine mammal exits the 
shutdown zone.
    (7) If construction activity is delayed or halted due to the 
presence of a marine mammal, the activity may not commence or resume 
until the animal has voluntarily exited and has been visually confirmed 
beyond the shutdown zone.
    (8) The USACE must conduct a gradual increase (i.e., ramp-up) to 
begin construction each day by moving around the project area and 
starting equipment one at a time, not all at once.
    (9) The USACE must avoid direct physical interaction with marine 
mammals during construction activity. If a marine mammal comes within 
10 meters (m) of such activity operations must cease to avoid direct 
physical interaction and can only resume after the animal has left the 
10 m zone.
    (10) If a pup less than one week old comes within 20 m of where 
heavy machinery is working, operations must cease and can only resume 
after the animal has left the 20 m zone.
    (11) During pupping season (August 1 through October 31), 
construction activities may not be initiated within 300 m of a mom/pup 
pair that is hauled out or within 100 m of a mom/pup pair in the water.
    (b) [Reserved]


Sec.  217.245  Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

    (a) The USACE must submit a Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan to NMFS 
for approval at least 90 days in advance of construction. Marine mammal 
monitoring must be conducted in accordance with the conditions in this 
section and the approved Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan.
    (b) Monitoring must be conducted by qualified, NMFS-approved PSOs, 
in accordance with the following conditions:
    (1) PSOs must be independent of the activity contractor (for 
example, employed by a subcontractor) and have no other assigned tasks 
during monitoring periods.
    (2) At least one PSO must have prior experience performing the 
duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued 
incidental take authorization.
    (3) Other PSOs may substitute other relevant experience, education 
(i.e., degree in biological science or related field), or training for 
prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction 
activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.
    (4) PSOs must record all observations of marine mammals as 
described in the Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan, regardless of distance 
from the pile being driven. PSOs shall document any behavioral 
reactions in concert with distance from piles being driven or removed.
    (c) A census of marine mammals in the project area and the area 
surrounding the project must be conducted 30 minutes prior to the 
beginning of any construction day, and again 30 minutes after the 
completion of construction activities. Data collected during the pre-
and post-construction daily censuses must include:
    (1) Environmental conditions (weather condition, tidal conditions, 
visibility, cloud cover, air temperature and wind speed);
    (2) Numbers of each marine mammal species spotted;
    (3) Location of each species spotted, including distance from 
construction activity;
    (4) Status (in water or hauled-out); and
    (5) Behavior.
    (d) The USACE must conduct hourly counts of animals hauled out and 
in the water. Data collected must include:
    (1) Numbers of each species;
    (2) Location of species; whether hauled-out or in the water; and 
distance from construction activities;
    (3) Time;
    (4) Tidal conditions;
    (5) Time construction activities start and end;
    (6) Primary construction activities occurring during past hour;
    (7) Any noise or visual disturbance;
    (8) Number of mom/pup pairs and neonates observed; and
    (9) Notable behaviors, including foraging, grooming, resting, 
aggression, mating activity, and others.
    (e) The USACE must note any of the following information to the 
extent it is feasible to record:
    (1) Age-class;
    (2) Sex;
    (3) Unusual activity or signs of stress; and
    (4) Any other information worth noting.
    (f) The USACE must record reaction observed in relation to 
construction activities including:
    (1) Tally of each reaction;
    (2) Time of reaction;
    (3) Concurrent construction activity (including duration) and 
assumed cause (whether related to construction activities or not) and 
whether observer feels the disturbance was visual or acoustic;
    (4) Location of animal during initial reaction and distance from 
the noted disturbance;
    (5) Direction of movement;
    (6) Activity before and after disturbance;
    (7) Status (in water or hauled out) before and after disturbance; 
and
    (8) Coded reaction of Level 1--Alert; Level 2--Movement, or Level 
3--Flush as defined in the Preamble.
    (g) The USACE must submit a draft monitoring report to NMFS within 
90 calendar days of the completion of each construction year. A draft 
comprehensive 5-year summary report must also be submitted to NMFS 
within 90 days of the end of the project. The reports must detail the 
monitoring protocol and summarize the data recorded during monitoring. 
Final annual reports and the final comprehensive report must be 
prepared and submitted within 30 days following resolution of any NMFS 
comments on the draft report. If no comments are received from NMFS 
within 30 days of receipt of the draft report, the report must be 
considered final. If comments are received, a final report addressing 
NMFS comments must be submitted within 30 days after receipt of 
comments. The reports must contain the informational elements described 
at minimum below including:
    (1) Information collected in Sec.  247.245 (c) through (f).
    (2) All PSO datasheets and/or raw sightings data in electronic 
format.

[[Page 55027]]

    (h) In the event that personnel involved in the construction 
activities discover an injured or dead marine mammal, the USACE must 
report the incident to the Office of Protected Resources (OPR) and the 
West Coast regional stranding network as soon as feasible. If the death 
or injury was clearly caused by the specified activity, the USACE must 
immediately cease the activities until NMFS OPR is able to review the 
circumstances of the incident and determine what, if any, additional 
measures are appropriate to ensure compliance with the terms of this 
IHA. The USACE must not resume their activities until notified by NMFS. 
The report must include the following information:
    (1) Time, date, and location (latitude/longitude) of the first 
discovery (and updated location information if known and applicable);
    (2) Species identification (if known) or description of the 
animal(s) involved;
    (3) Condition of the animal(s) (including carcass condition if the 
animal is dead);
    (4) Observed behaviors of the animal(s), if alive;
    (5) If available, photographs or video footage of the animal(s); 
and
    (6) General circumstances under which the animal was discovered.


Sec.  217.246  Letters of Authorization.

    (a) To incidentally take marine mammals pursuant to these 
regulations, the USACE must apply for and obtain an LOA.
    (b) An LOA, unless suspended or revoked, may be effective for a 
period of time not to exceed the expiration date of these regulations.
    (c) If an LOA expires prior to the expiration date of these 
regulations, the USACE may apply for and obtain a renewal of the LOA.
    (d) In the event of projected changes to the activity or to 
mitigation and monitoring measures required by an LOA, the USACE must 
apply for and obtain a modification of the LOA as described in Sec.  
217.247.
    (e) The LOA must set forth the following information:
    (1) Permissible methods of incidental taking;
    (2) Means of effecting the least practicable adverse impact (i.e., 
mitigation) on the species, its habitat, and on the availability of the 
species for subsistence uses; and
    (3) Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
    (f) Issuance of the LOA must be based on a determination that the 
level of taking will be consistent with the findings made for the total 
taking allowable under these regulations.
    (g) Notice of issuance or denial of an LOA must be published in the 
Federal Register within 30 days of a determination.


Sec.  217.247  Renewals and modifications of Letters of Authorization.

    (a) An LOA issued under Sec.  216.106 of this chapter and Sec.  
217.246 for the activity identified in Sec.  217.240(a) may be renewed 
or modified upon request by the applicant, provided that:
    (1) The specified activity and mitigation, monitoring, and 
reporting measures, as well as the anticipated impacts, are the same as 
those described and analyzed for these regulations; and
    (2) NMFS determines that the mitigation, monitoring, and reporting 
measures required by the previous LOA under these regulations were 
implemented.
    (b) For LOA modification or renewal requests by the applicant that 
include changes to the activity or the mitigation, monitoring, or 
reporting that do not change the findings made for the regulations or 
result in no more than a minor change in the total estimated number of 
takes (or distribution by species or years), NMFS may publish a notice 
of proposed LOA in the Federal Register, including the associated 
analysis of the change, and solicit public comment before issuing the 
LOA.
    (c) An LOA issued under Sec. Sec.  216.106 of this chapter and 
217.246 for the activity identified in Sec.  217.240 (a) may be 
modified by NMFS under the following circumstances:
    (1) NMFS may modify (including augment) the existing mitigation, 
monitoring, or reporting measures (after consulting with USACE 
regarding the practicability of the modifications) if doing so creates 
a reasonable likelihood of more effectively accomplishing the goals of 
the mitigation and monitoring set forth in the preamble for these 
regulations;
    (i) Possible sources of data that could contribute to the decision 
to modify the mitigation, monitoring, or reporting measures in an LOA:
    (A) Results from USACE's monitoring from previous years;
    (B) Results from other marine mammal and/or sound research or 
studies; and
    (C) Any information that reveals marine mammals may have been taken 
in a manner, extent or number not authorized by these regulations or 
subsequent LOAs; and
    (ii) If, through adaptive management, the modifications to the 
mitigation, monitoring, or reporting measures are substantial, NMFS 
must publish a notice of proposed LOA in the Federal Register and 
solicit public comment; and
    (2) If NMFS determines that an emergency exists that poses a 
significant risk to the well-being of the species or stocks of marine 
mammals specified in a LOA issued pursuant to Sec.  216.106 of this 
chapter and Sec.  217.246, a LOA may be modified without prior notice 
or opportunity for public comment. Notification would be published in 
the Federal Register within 30 days of the action.


Sec. Sec.  217.248-217.249  [Reserved]

[FR Doc. 2026-17391 Filed 8-25-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3510-22-P


</pre></body>
</html>