<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 125 (Wednesday, July 1, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 125 (Wednesday, July 1, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 39976-39978]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-13283]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY


Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records

AGENCY: Central Intelligence Agency.

ACTION: Notice of a new system of records.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: Pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, and Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-108, notice is hereby given 
that the Central Intelligence Agency (``CIA'') is submitting to the 
Federal Register one (1) new System of Records Notice (SORN), CIA-46 
Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention Office (SHARP) 
Records. This new SORN covers records related to CIA's assessment, 
processing, and tracking of sexual harassment and sexual assault 
inquiries, allegations, and reports, which includes case management, 
dispositions, guidance, and reporting to CIA leadership, stakeholders, 
and oversight bodies.

DATES: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11), this notice is 
effective upon publication, subject to a 30-day period in which to 
comment on the routine uses, described below. Please submit any 
comments by July 31, 2026.

ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by the following methods: By mail 
to Mark Mouser, Privacy and Civil Liberties Officer, Central 
Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505; or by email to 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection" class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="d593b0b187b0b299bcb4bca6babb95a0b6b0fbb6bcb4fbb2baa3">[email&#160;protected]</a>. Please include ``NOTICE OF NEW CIA SORN'' in 
the subject line of the message.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Mouser, Privacy and Civil 
Liberties Officer, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505, 
(571) 280-2700.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: CIA created the Sexual Harassment/Assault 
Response and Prevention (SHARP) Office to centralize handling and 
documentation of sexual harassment and sexual assault matters to comply 
with 50 U.S.C. 3531 to 3533: Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment 
Within the Agency; Reporting and Investigation of Allegations of Sexual 
Assault and Sexual Harassment; and Special Victim Investigator. The 
SHARP Office provides an enterprise service responsible for responding 
to and preventing sexual harassment and sexual assault through a 
balance of education, trauma-informed care, and victim-centered 
advocacy. Under 50 U.S.C. 3532, the SHARP Office serves as the primary 
point of contact and entry point for Agency employees to make 
``Restricted'' or ``Unrestricted'' reports of sexual harassment and 
sexual assault. ``Restricted'' reports are those reports of sexual 
harassment or sexual assault that are kept confidential and are made to 
SHARP without notifications or investigation. ``Unrestricted'' reports 
are those reports of sexual harassment or sexual assault that are kept 
confidential, but include notification to management and appropriate 
investigators. The SHARP Office is also responsible for various 
notification, reporting, policy setting, training, and data analysis 
related to reports of sexual harassment and sexual assault by CIA 
personnel.
    CIA proposes a new System of Record Notice (SORN), CIA-46, Sexual 
Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention (SHARP) Office Records, to 
cover all records maintained by the SHARP Office related to its 
official responsibilities, including records used to assess, inquire 
into, and efficiently manage allegations of sexual harassment and 
sexual assault.
    In addition to incorporating by reference the ``Statement of 
General Routine Uses for the Central Intelligence Agency,'' set out at 
87 FR 73198, November 28, 2022, revised and republished at 91 FR 1743 
(January 15, 2026), CIA-46, SHARP Records, will include three new 
routine uses for the records maintained in this system of records. 
First, consistent with the SHARP Office's responsibilities, records may 
be disclosed to individual victims, alleged offenders, Senior 
Management Official Point of Contacts, witnesses, security officers 
such as the Special Victim Investigator, and other individuals to the 
extent necessary to respond to, or to update such individuals on the 
response regarding Restricted or Unrestricted reports relating to an 
allegation of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or retaliation/
reprisal.
    Second, records may be disclosed to any victim or other appropriate 
individual to the extent necessary to comply with the Agency's common 
perpetrator notification requirements, in accordance with all 
applicable laws and internal Agency regulations. ``Common perpetrator 
notification requirements'' generally refer to the laws and internal 
Agency regulations that require CIA to provide specific notifications 
upon receipt of an incident report containing an allegation of sexual 
harassment or sexual assault against an individual known to be the 
subject of at least one allegation of sexual harassment or sexual 
assault by another reporter.
    Finally, records may be disclosed to a federal, state, local, or 
Tribal law enforcement agency, or other appropriate entity or 
individual, when the Special Victim Investigator determines the 
disclosure is necessary and relevant to conducting inquiries, 
investigations, or other fact-finding

[[Page 39977]]

activities related to Unrestricted reports containing allegations of 
sexual harassment or sexual assault, in accordance with federal, state, 
local, Tribal, or other applicable laws, and internal Agency 
regulations.
    The ``Special Victim Investigator'' referenced in these routine 
uses, and referenced throughout this SORN, refers to the statutorily-
established federal law enforcement officer authorized to investigate 
or facilitate the investigation of Unrestricted reports containing 
allegations of sexual harassment or sexual assault by CIA personnel.
    Nothing in the new SORN indicates any change in CIA's authorities 
or practices regarding the collection and maintenance of information 
about citizens and lawful permanent residents of the United States, nor 
does the new SORN change any individual's rights to access or to amend 
their records in accordance with the Privacy Act.
    In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(r), CIA has provided a report to 
OMB and Congress on the new system of records.

     Dated: June 25, 2026.
Mark Mouser,
Privacy and Civil Liberties Officer, Central Intelligence Agency. (571) 
280-2700
CIA-46
SYSTEM NAME AND NUMBER:
    Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention Office (SHARP) 
Records (CIA-46)

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION:
    The classification of records in this system can range from 
UNCLASSIFIED to TOP SECRET.

SYSTEM LOCATION:
    Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505.

SYSTEM MANAGER(S):
    Director, Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention Office, 
Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505.

AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM:
    The National Security Act of 1947, as amended, 50 U.S.C. 3036 et 
seq.; the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended, 50 
U.S.C. 3501 et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 3531 to 3533: Sexual Assault and Sexual 
Harassment Within the Agency; Reporting and Investigation of 
Allegations of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment; and Special Victim 
Investigator; and Executive Order 12333, as amended, 73 FR 45325.

PURPOSE(S) OF THE SYSTEM:
    Records in this system are used by authorized personnel to:
    a. ensure process integrity and enable the CIA and the Director of 
the CIA to carry out their lawful and authorized responsibilities.
    b. centralize case level sexual harassment and sexual assault data 
involving employees of the Agency and those eligible for SHARP 
services, in accordance with federal laws regarding Restricted and 
Unrestricted reporting.
    c. facilitate reports to, and compile statistical analysis for, 
Congress and Agency leadership in connection with, disclosures, 
mandatory reports, Unrestricted Reports, and retaliation reports made 
by or against Agency personnel and other stakeholders with an official 
need to know.
    d. facilitate Common Perpetrator Notification in accordance with 
federal laws.
    e. facilitate documentation of disclosures and/or allegations of 
sexual harassment, sexual assault, and retaliation resulting in a 
SHARP-related inquiry.
    f. track appropriate case management and high-risk response team 
meetings for system coordination and accountability, facilitate a 
victim's access to quality services, and provide case status updates.
    g. maintain the Victim Reporting Preference Statement, Retaliation 
Reporting, and Common Perpetrator Notification, to ensure compliance 
with the federal records retention requirements and allow victims 
access to their forms.
    h. maintain records of all inquiries, investigations, and reports 
of allegations of sexual harassment and sexual assault.
    i. provide information to management and Agency leadership 
regarding personnel matters.
    j. coordinate with, and provide information indicating or relating 
to a violation or potential violation of criminal law, civil law, or 
regulation, to appropriate entities responsible with enforcing or 
implementing such criminal law, civil law, or regulation.
    Records may also be used by authorized personnel as a management 
tool for statistical analysis, tracking, reporting, evaluating program 
effectiveness, conducting research and surveys, and case and business 
management.

CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM:
    Agency employees; independent or industrial contractors; detailees 
and assignees; individuals other than an Agency employee who allege 
they were sexually harassed or sexually assaulted at a facility 
associated with the Agency or during the performance of a function 
associated with the Agency; alleged offenders; witnesses and 
bystanders; first responders; partners who provide advocacy and 
resource support; and personnel from other federal, state, local, 
Tribal, or other appropriate government departments and agencies.
    Sexual harassment and sexual assault victims, family members, and 
other parties (e.g. co-workers, friends) who report retaliation related 
to reports of sexual harassment and sexual assault.

CATEGORIES OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM:
    Documents, written correspondence, cables, and materials relating 
to inquiries, complaints and investigations of actual or alleged 
incidents of sexual harassment and sexual assault; records related to 
the processing of allegations of sexual harassment and sexual assault, 
including tracking referrals to appropriate resources made available to 
individuals, to include measures taken, products and services provided 
in response to such allegations; relationship information, and other 
details related to the individual(s) impacted by, or involved in, an 
alleged or actual incident of sexual harassment or sexual assault; 
witness and mandatory reporting information; victim and alleged 
offender information, including CIA employee number, gender, location 
of assignment and incident, name, organizational affiliation (agency, 
directorate/mission center, office, unit), personal contact information 
(e.g., phone number, address, email address), badge number, 
identification type (e.g., driver's license, passport) and 
identification number, employment data (such as grade), and records on 
position and job title information; information related to assessment 
and disposition of the case, including case management and tracking 
data; other authorized data collected to support inquiries, complaints, 
and investigations, including but not limited to, date and type of 
report, case control number, SHARP Advocate assigned, referrals to 
appropriate resources, victim safety information, medical information, 
forensic information, information about the presence of drugs, case 
management meeting information, information on request for reassignment 
and relocation, information about protective orders, victim reporting 
preference statements, required 8-day reports; and other sexual 
harassment or sexual assault data collected to support case and 
business management.
    Retaliation reporter and alleged retaliator information may also be 
included with the retaliation inquiry control number; referral to 
appropriate

[[Page 39978]]

office to inquire or investigate the retaliation; CIA employee number 
and name of retaliation reporter, and date of inquiry.

RECORD SOURCE CATEGORIES:
    Records and information stored in this system may be provided by 
any individual who is impacted by, or involved in, an alleged or actual 
incident of sexual harassment or sexual assault and includes: 
complainants; victims; witnesses; alleged offenders; mandatory 
reporters; individuals who respond to an allegation of sexual 
harassment or sexual assault; individuals covered by this system or 
derived from other systems covered by other System of Record Notices; 
CIA management; CIA personnel whose duties include advocacy and 
support, investigation, and processing of inquiries, complaints or 
investigations of alleged or actual incidents of sexual harassment or 
sexual assault; other federal, state, local, Tribal or other 
appropriate government departments and agencies; physicians and medical 
practitioners; and other organizations or individuals supporting 
SHARP's mission.

ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING CATEGORIES 
OF USERS AND THE PURPOSE OF SUCH USES:
    In addition to the disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 
552a(b), the routine uses set forth in the ``Statement of General 
Routine Uses for the Central Intelligence Agency,'' 87 FR 73198, 
November 28, 2022, revised and republished 91 FR 1743, January 15, 
2026, are incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the General 
Routine Uses incorporated by reference, the following additional 
routine uses also apply to this SORN:
    21. Disclosure to individual victims, alleged offenders, Senior 
Management Official Point of Contacts (POCs), witnesses, security 
officers such as the Special Victim Investigator (SVI), and other 
individuals to the extent necessary to respond to, or to update such 
individuals on the response regarding Restricted or Unrestricted 
reports relating to an allegation of sexual harassment, sexual assault, 
or retaliation/reprisal, reported pursuant to federal, state, local, 
Tribal, or other applicable laws, or internal Agency regulations.
    22. Disclosure to any victims or other appropriate individuals to 
the extent necessary to comply with the Agency's common perpetrator 
notification requirements, in accordance with federal, state, local, 
Tribal, or other applicable laws, and internal Agency regulations.
    23. Disclosure to a federal, state, local, Tribal, or other 
appropriate law enforcement agency, or other appropriate entities or 
individuals, when the SVI determines the disclosure is necessary and 
relevant to conducting inquiries, investigations, or other fact-finding 
activities related to Unrestricted reports containing allegations of 
sexual harassment or sexual assault, in accordance with federal, state, 
local, Tribal, or other applicable laws, and internal Agency 
regulations.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORAGE OF RECORDS:
    Paper and other hard-copy records are stored in secured areas 
within the CIA or in CIA-controlled facilities. Electronic records are 
stored in secure file-servers located within CIA-controlled facilities 
or in CIA-contracted facilities subject to CIA supervision.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS:
    Records in this system may be retrieved by name, case control 
number, CIA employee number, or other unique personal identifier by 
automated or hand search based on extant indices and automated 
capabilities utilized in the normal course of business. Under 
applicable law and regulations, all searches of this system of records 
will be performed in CIA offices by CIA personnel.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETENTION AND DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:
    All records are maintained and disposed of in accordance with 
applicable Records Control Schedules issued or approved by the National 
Archives and Records Administration.

ADMINISTRATIVE, TECHNICAL, AND PHYSICAL SAFEGUARDS:
    Records are maintained in secure, restricted areas and are accessed 
only by personnel who have a need for the records in the performance of 
their official duties and have been authorized for such access. 
Electronic authorization and authentication access controls are 
required to prevent against unauthorized access, use, and disclosure.

RECORD ACCESS PROCEDURES:
    Requests from individuals should be addressed as indicated in the 
notification procedures section below. Regulations for access to 
individual records or for appealing an initial determination by CIA 
concerning the access to records are published in the Code of Federal 
Regulations (32 CFR 1901.11-.45).

CONTESTING RECORD PROCEDURES:
    Requests from individuals to correct or amend records should be 
addressed as indicated in the notification procedures section below. 
CIA's regulations regarding requests for amendments to, or disputing 
the contents of, individual records or for appealing an initial 
determination by CIA concerning these matters are published in the Code 
of Federal Regulations (32 CFR 1901.21-32, 32 CFR 1901.42).

NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
    Individuals seeking to learn if this system of records contains 
information about them should direct their inquiries to: Information 
and Privacy Coordinator, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 
20505. Identification requirements are specified in the CIA rules 
published in the Code of Federal Regulations (32 CFR 1901.12-.14). 
Individuals must comply with these rules in order for their request to 
be processed.

EXEMPTIONS PROMULGATED FOR THE SYSTEM:
    Certain records contained within this system of records may be 
exempted from certain provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5), (j)(1), and (k).

HISTORY:
    None.

[FR Doc. 2026-13283 Filed 6-30-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6310-02-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>