<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 166 (Friday, August 28, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 166 (Friday, August 28, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 55457-55461]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-17660]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

[Public Notice: 13088]

22 CFR Parts 120 and 121

RIN 1400-AG17


International Traffic in Arms Regulations: Modification of Civil 
Aircraft To Incorporate Aircraft Survivability Equipment

AGENCY: Department of State.

ACTION: Interim final rule; request for comments.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Department of State (the Department) amends the 
International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) to remove from the 
U.S. Munitions List (USML) certain aircraft that have been modified to 
incorporate aircraft survivability equipment (ASE) and to exclude from 
the ITAR certain activities that would otherwise meet the definition of 
reexport or temporary import of ASE incorporated into such aircraft.

DATES: 
    Effective date: This rule is effective October 13, 2026.
    Comment due date: Send comments on or before September 28, 2026.

ADDRESSES: Interested parties may submit comments to the Department of 
State by any of the following methods:
    <bullet> Visit the <a href="http://Regulations.gov">Regulations.gov</a> website at: <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a> and search for the docket number [DOS-2026-0892].
    <bullet> Email: <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#8bcfcfdfc8dbfee9e7e2e8c8e4e6e6eee5fff8cbf8ffeaffeea5ece4fd"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="9bdfdfcfd8cbeef9f7f2f8d8f4f6f6fef5efe8dbe8effaeffeb5fcf4ed">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>. Commenting parties 
must include RIN 1400-AG17 in the subject line of the email message.
    See SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION for other information about 
electronic filing.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Chris Weil, Office of Defense 
Trade Controls Policy, Department of State, email 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#5a1e1e0e19192f292e35373f28093f282c33393f1a292e3b2e3f743d352c"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="0d4949594e4e787e796260687f5e687f7b646e684d7e796c7968236a627b">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> SUBJECT: Aircraft Survivability 
Equipment--RIN 1400-AG17.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of State's Directorate of 
Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) administers the ITAR (22 CFR parts 120 
through 130) to, among other things, regulate the export, reexport, 
retransfer, and temporary import of defense articles and defense 
services described on the USML at ITAR Sec.  121.1. Items not subject 
to the ITAR or to the exclusive licensing jurisdiction of any other 
department or agency of the U.S. Government are subject to the Export 
Administration Regulations (EAR; 15 CFR parts 730 through 774), which 
include the Commerce Control List (CCL) in Supplement No. 1 to part 
774. The EAR is administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security 
(BIS), U.S. Department of Commerce. This rule does not modify the list 
of defense articles and defense services controlled for purposes of 
permanent import by the Attorney General, as enumerated on the U.S. 
Munitions Import List (USMIL) at 27 CFR 447.21.
    Section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) (22 U.S.C. 2778), 
the authority from which the ITAR is derived, requires periodic review 
to determine what articles and services, if any, no longer warrant 
designation on the USML at ITAR Sec.  121.1. In maintaining the USML, 
DDTC's Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy (DTCP) identifies 
articles and services for review for addition to or removal from the 
USML, or for clarification on how they are described on the USML, 
through a variety of methods, including public feedback and interagency 
consultations, commodity jurisdiction reviews, advisory opinions, and 
technology monitoring. The Department maintains the USML such that it 
comprises those defense articles or defense services that provide a 
critical military or intelligence advantage or, in the case of weapons, 
have an inherently military function. The Department, informed by 
consultations with its interagency partners, determined that those 
articles and services this rule removes from the USML no longer warrant 
ITAR control. Additionally, the Department has long used its delegated 
authority under the AECA to define which events are controlled as 
exports, reexports, retransfers, and temporary imports.
    For the purposes of this rule the Department refers to civil 
aircraft that are subsequently modified to incorporate certain aircraft 
survivability equipment (ASE) as survivability-enhanced aircraft. ASE 
is a term generally used to refer to systems and equipment designed to 
reduce an aircraft's susceptibility and vulnerability to manufactured 
threats by detecting, alerting on, and mitigating threats. For purposes 
of this preamble,

[[Page 55458]]

ASE specifically refers to directed infrared countermeasures (DIRCM) 
and infrared or ultraviolet missile warning systems necessary for the 
operation of DIRCM. Survivability-enhanced aircraft are often used to 
mitigate risk in the transport of passengers or goods, in various 
threat environments. These aircraft incorporate ASE described on the 
USML to protect the aircraft and its occupants from man-portable air 
defense systems (MANPADS) and other guided weapons that can pose a 
serious threat to aircraft. Foreign governments also utilize civil 
aircraft incorporating ASE to transport heads of state and other 
persons, and some airlines have incorporated ASE to protect passengers 
traveling in higher risk areas.
    ASE is described in the subparagraphs of USML Category XI(a)(4), 
which describes electronic warfare (EW) systems and equipment; thus, 
survivability-enhanced aircraft are currently described in USML 
Category VIII(a)(8), as aircraft specially designed to incorporate a 
defense article for the purpose of performing an EW function. The 
Department notes that aircraft modified to facilitate incorporation of 
ASE are currently described in paragraph (a)(8) even when the ASE is 
not physically present in the aircraft. Since such modifications are 
properties peculiarly responsible for the incorporation of the ASE, 
they satisfy the specially designed definition at Sec.  120.41(a)(1).
    Based on its assessments and the discretion afforded it, and to 
facilitate the operation and maintenance of certain aircraft that have 
been modified to incorporate ASE, the Department is amending USML 
Category VIII(a)(8), adding corresponding definitions to Sec.  121.0, 
and adding two new entries to Sec.  120.54 to expand the definition of 
``activities that are not exports, reexports, retransfers, or temporary 
imports.'' Activities listed in ITAR Sec.  120.54 do not require an 
authorization from DDTC.

USML Category VIII

    The Department is revising USML Category VIII(a)(8) to exclude 
certain aircraft that have been modified to incorporate ASE. To 
concisely implement this exclusion, the Department is also adding new 
definitions of secured ASE and survivability-enhanced aircraft, and the 
acronyms ``ASE'' and ``USML,'' to Sec.  121.0.
    Furnishing assistance to a foreign person in maintaining, 
repairing, or operating an aircraft described in paragraph (a)(8) is a 
defense service even for repairs limited to an aircraft component 
otherwise subject to the EAR, such as brakes controlled in the EAR's 
Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 9A991.d, while that item is 
incorporated into the aircraft. This is because such activities furnish 
assistance to the foreign person in maintaining the aircraft, which is 
a defense article.
    Servicing activities for aircraft described on the USML continue to 
warrant control under the ITAR because maintenance of an aircraft helps 
maintain the foreign person's access to the capabilities of the 
aircraft. However, the Department assesses that incorporating secured 
ASE to protect an aircraft and its occupants should not, by itself, 
subject an otherwise civil aircraft to regulation under the ITAR. Such 
regulation of maintenance services, when not directly related to the 
incorporated ASE, may place U.S. companies at an unnecessary 
competitive disadvantage due to the widespread availability of such 
services and a lack of similar foreign regulation. The Department 
assesses that, when incorporated into an otherwise civil aircraft 
without modifications to incorporate other defense articles, ASE 
supports a purely protective function. For this and other reasons, the 
Department assesses commercial servicing and maintenance of 
survivability-enhanced aircraft does not provide a critical military or 
intelligence advantage that warrants continued ITAR control.
    Following the changes in this rule to remove certain aircraft from 
paragraph (a)(8), ASE will still be described on the USML in Category 
XI. The Department has determined that ASE, and directly related 
technical data and defense services, continue to provide a critical 
military or intelligence advantage and therefore should remain on the 
USML. ITAR Sec.  120.11(c) will continue to apply to ASE incorporated 
into an aircraft, regardless of the export jurisdiction of the 
aircraft. As a result, servicing ASE for a foreign person continues to 
be a defense service. Furthermore, assisting a foreign person in the 
modification of an aircraft to facilitate incorporation of ASE is a 
defense service described in USML Category XI(d) even before the ASE is 
installed. Such assistance is directly related to the ASE and, at a 
minimum, assists the foreign person in the use of the ASE. Similarly, 
assisting a foreign person in maintaining or repairing portions of the 
aircraft modified for the purpose of incorporating ASE (e.g., upgraded 
power supplies, dedicated wiring) are defense services described in 
USML Category XI(d). Even when such services are performed on aircraft 
components subject to the EAR, they both directly relate to the ASE and 
assist the foreign person in the use of the ASE.
    The new definition of secured ASE in Sec.  121.0 limits the scope 
of that term to specific types of defensive EW equipment. The 
Department considered further limiting the scope of the exclusion to 
ASE designed to provide protection against MANPADS; however, the 
Department's review of civil aircraft losses concluded that the threat 
is no longer limited to MANPADS. The new definition of secured ASE also 
specifies that certain anti-tamper protections must be in place when 
the ASE is incorporated into the aircraft.
    The new definition of survivability-enhanced aircraft specifically 
excludes unmanned aircraft, aircraft that did not start out as civil 
aircraft (as described in paragraph (1) of the new definition for 
``survivability-enhanced aircraft''), and aircraft described in USML 
Category VIII(a)(8) or elsewhere on the USML for reasons other than 
incorporating secured ASE.

New Entries in Sec.  120.54(a)

    The Department is adding two new paragraphs to Sec.  120.54(a) to 
remove the ITAR authorization requirement for certain reexports and 
temporary imports of defense articles that meet the new Sec.  121.0 
definition of secured ASE. Pursuant to Sec.  120.11(c), ASE retains its 
status as a defense article following incorporation or integration into 
an aircraft, regardless of the jurisdiction of the aircraft. For 
example, an ITAR license or other authorization type is currently 
required for all exports of ASE out of the United States and for all 
temporary imports of ASE into the United States, including instances in 
which the ASE is incorporated into an aircraft not described on the 
USML. Similarly, when ASE is subject to the reexport or retransfer 
restrictions of the ITAR (e.g., U.S.-origin defense articles and 
defense articles subject to ITAR Sec.  124.8(a)(5)), an ITAR 
authorization is currently required for all reexports and retransfers, 
including when an aircraft incorporating secured ASE travels to a third 
country.
    The Department determined ASE provides a critical military or 
intelligence advantage such that it warrants description on the USML. 
ASE is military technology, regardless of its use by civilian entities. 
In providing notifications of guided missile threats and assisting 
pilots in defending against those threats, ASE provides a critical 
advantage--including during contested airspace operations. However, 
standard ITAR requirements impose an

[[Page 55459]]

unnecessary compliance burden on international partners using secured 
ASE to protect dignitaries and commercial passengers, particularly when 
traveling to a country identified in ITAR Sec.  126.1. The requirements 
also place U.S. manufacturers at a competitive disadvantage relative to 
foreign manufacturers whose products are not subject to ITAR regulation 
of reexports.
    The Department assesses that, when ASE has previously been 
authorized for export from the United States pursuant to a license 
issued under the ITAR (and thus subjected to a U.S. national security 
review), for incorporation into a survivability-enhanced aircraft, and 
continues to be utilized only for its authorized use by an authorized 
end user, it is not necessary for the Department to review the 
operational movements of that aircraft. Similarly, the Department 
assesses that temporary imports of secured ASE incorporated into 
survivability-enhanced aircraft, without other modifications that make 
the aircraft described on the USML, do not require its review while the 
ASE remains incorporated.
    For these reasons, the Department is adding two new paragraphs to 
Sec.  120.54(a) to exclude what would otherwise be a reexport or 
temporary import of secured ASE while it is incorporated into 
survivability-enhanced aircraft, under specified conditions. Defense 
services directly related to ASE and transfer to a foreign person of 
technical data directly related to ASE remain controlled events, 
regardless of the ASE status.
    The primary purpose of the new Sec.  120.54(a)(8) is to remove 
certain restrictions on otherwise civil aircraft temporarily entering 
and exiting the United States with secured ASE installed. Similarly, 
the primary purpose of the new Sec.  120.54(a)(9) is to remove certain 
restrictions on the movement of aircraft that incorporate secured ASE 
already approved for export from the United States pursuant to a 
license and remaining under the control of users already authorized to 
possess the ASE. Such aircraft may include those operated by civilian 
airlines or those maintained or operated for the benefit of heads of 
state, international organizations like the United Nations, and 
humanitarian organizations. New paragraphs (a)(8) and (9) apply only to 
the physical movement of the secured ASE while it is incorporated into 
a survivability-enhanced aircraft; these paragraphs do not authorize 
any defense services or release of technical data directly related to 
the ASE (including removal of the ASE from the aircraft). New paragraph 
(a)(9) applies only to ASE previously authorized for export from the 
United States pursuant to a license; it does not apply to ASE that has 
only been exported pursuant to an exemption.
    Retransfer of ASE to a foreign person while outside the United 
States remains a controlled event in all cases. The new Sec.  
120.54(a)(8) does not enable temporary imports that involve transfers 
of the aircraft or the incorporated ASE to a different foreign person 
while inside the United States. If the ASE has been authorized for 
export under a separate ITAR authorization, for use by a particular 
organization and its employees, then a transfer of control of the 
aircraft and secured ASE between employees of the same organization 
must be completed using that ITAR authorization.

Effective Date and Updating of Licenses and Agreements

    The Department is implementing an effective date of October 13, 
2026, in making the revisions described in this interim final rule. The 
Department's website (<a href="http://www.pmddtc.state.gov">www.pmddtc.state.gov</a>) includes guidance for 
practitioners on the treatment of items removed from the USML.

Submission of Voluntary Disclosures or Voluntary Self-Disclosures

    In reviewing the clarifications provided by this rule, if you 
identify a potential violation of the ITAR, you may submit a voluntary 
disclosure to DDTC, consistent with the procedures outlined in ITAR 
Sec.  127.12. For potential violations of the EAR, persons are 
encouraged to disclose violations to BIS, including through the 
submission of voluntary self-disclosures, consistent with the 
procedures outlined in EAR Sec. Sec.  764.4 and 764.5. For potential 
violations of both the EAR and the ITAR, persons are encouraged to 
submit disclosures to both agencies.

Request for Comments

Comments Requested

    The Department is requesting public comments on the revisions 
described in this rulemaking. The Department encourages the public to 
provide comments related to this rule, as well as comments specifically 
responsive to the five questions described in this section. To 
facilitate timely review and assessment of the comments, comments 
should be provided in a concise sentence or paragraph, followed by 
supporting explanatory paragraphs and examples, with each distinct 
comment treated separately (as opposed to multiple comments in one 
paragraph or section). The Department requests comments focused on the 
following questions:
    1. How much would practitioners benefit from the Department 
defining the terms for the eligible types of ASE?
    2. Are there commodities, services, or technical data closely 
related to these revisions that warrant ITAR control, but are currently 
either not described on the USML, or not described with sufficient 
clarity? If so, please provide examples and a concise explanation.
    3. Are there commodities, services, or technical data closely 
related to these revisions that do not warrant ITAR control? If so, 
please provide examples and a concise explanation.
    4. Are there specific functions, performance levels, or 
characteristics related to these revisions that could better:
    a. Distinguish between the commodities that do, and do not, warrant 
ITAR control; or
    b. Align with the constructions or language used elsewhere in the 
ITAR?
    5. Can any of these revisions be more clearly or concisely stated?

Comment Submission Instructions

    Include the Regulatory Information Number (RIN) (1400-AG17) for all 
submissions related to this rule. Parties who wish to comment 
anonymously may do so by submitting their comments via 
<a href="http://www.regulations.gov">www.regulations.gov</a>, leaving the fields that would identify the 
commenter blank and including no identifying information in the comment 
itself. Commenters are cautioned not to include proprietary, export-
controlled, personal, or other sensitive information in their comments 
that they would not want to be made public. If such information would 
provide useful insight to the comment: (1) assemble that information in 
a separate document with proprietary markings; (2) include 
``Proprietary supplement on file with: [provide POC]'' as the first 
line in the body of the email submission; (3) submit the public portion 
of the comment via email; and (4) call DDTC at (202) 663-1282 to 
coordinate submission of the proprietary supplement.

Regulatory Analysis and Notices

Administrative Procedure Act

    This rulemaking is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of the 
Administrative Procedure Act (APA) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(a)(1) as it 
involves a military or foreign affairs function of the United States. 
Nevertheless, and without prejudice to

[[Page 55460]]

this determination, the Department seeks certain public comments in 
this rule.

Regulatory Flexibility Act

    Since this rule is exempt from the notice-and-comment rulemaking 
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, it does not require analysis under the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act.

Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995

    This rulemaking does not involve a mandate that will result in the 
expenditure by state, local, and tribal governments, in the aggregate, 
or by the private sector of $100 million or more in any year and it 
will not significantly or uniquely affect small governments. Therefore, 
no actions are deemed necessary under the provisions of the Unfunded 
Mandates Reform Act of 1995.

Congressional Review Act

    This rule does not meet the criteria of 5 U.S.C. 804(2).

Executive Orders 12372 and 13132

    This rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to 
require consultations or warrant the preparation of a federalism 
summary impact statement. The regulations implementing Executive Order 
12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and 
activities do not apply to this rulemaking.

Executive Orders 12866 and 13563

    Executive Order 12866, as supplemented and affirmed by Executive 
Order 13563, directs agencies to assess all costs and benefits of 
available regulatory alternatives and, if regulation is necessary, to 
select regulatory approaches that maximize net benefits (including 
potential economic, environmental, public health and safety effects, 
distributed impacts, and equity). Executive Order 13563 emphasizes the 
importance of quantifying both costs and benefits, of reducing costs, 
of harmonizing rules, and of promoting flexibility. The Department 
specifically welcomes public comment on the effects, including costs 
and benefits, of this rule. After review by the Office of Management 
and Budget (OMB), this rule has been deemed a ``significant regulatory 
action'' under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866.
    This rule was undertaken pursuant to a statutory directive to 
periodically review the items on the USML. The Department generally 
determines which items warrant addition to, or removal from, the USML 
by assessing whether each provides a critical military or intelligence 
advantage based on national security and foreign policy considerations. 
Because the costs and benefits of changing what is controlled focus on 
the effect or utility of the item or service, rather than its market 
prevalence or economic value, quantitative analyses cannot be usefully 
estimated and are not available, particularly since the global 
prevalence or availability of the item or service are not known. 
Qualitatively, the rule was assessed for costs and benefits. These 
revisions are also informed by confidential commodity jurisdiction 
determination and advisory opinion requests, submitted by industry. The 
Department takes into account common questions and strives to 
streamline and simplify USML entries based on how it understands 
industry experience with certain parts of the USML.
    This rule moves the export regulation of certain aircraft from the 
ITAR to the EAR, and it excludes from ITAR authorization requirements 
certain transfers of defense articles while they are incorporated into 
those aircraft. These actions reduce the regulatory burden on those who 
transfer, repair, or maintain such aircraft. The Department assesses 
that continuing to regulate these modified aircraft under the ITAR is 
unnecessary and that removing them will add options for U.S. 
participation in improving aviation safety. The Department assesses the 
benefits of this rulemaking outweigh any costs, that modifying the USML 
in this manner is the most cost-effective method to achieve the 
Department's regulatory objectives on this matter, and that doing so 
will result in a net reduction of the burden on the regulated 
community.
    The alternative to this rule was inaction or delay. The Department 
could have waited to amend larger parts of the USML at once or 
continued to gather data to evaluate the controls affected by this 
rule. These alternatives were rejected. Statutory requirements, 
including section 38(f) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
2778(f)), and section 1345 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2024, require a periodic review of the USML for edits 
like those made by this rule. While the Department continuously reviews 
the entire USML, it aims to focus on particular USML revisions in 
cycles, as it has done in implementing this rule.

Executive Order 14192

    This rule is exempt from Executive Order 14192 as it is a 
regulation issued with respect to a foreign affairs or national 
security function of the United States.

Executive Order 12988

    The Department of State has reviewed this rulemaking in light of 
sections 3(a) and 3(b)(2) of Executive Order 12988 to eliminate 
ambiguity, minimize litigation, establish clear legal standards, and 
reduce burden.

Executive Order 13175

    The Department of State has determined that this rulemaking will 
not have tribal implications, will not impose substantial direct 
compliance costs on Indian tribal governments, and will not preempt 
tribal law. Accordingly, the requirements of Executive Order 13175 do 
not apply to this rulemaking.

Paperwork Reduction Act

    This rulemaking does not impose or revise any information 
collections subject to 44 U.S.C. chapter 35.

List of Subjects

22 CFR Part 120

    Arms and munitions, Classified information, Exports.

22 CFR Part 121

    Arms and munitions, Classified information, Exports.

    For reasons stated in the preamble, the Department of State amends 
22 CFR parts 120 and 121, the United States Munitions List, as follows:

PART 120--PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS

0
1. The authority citation for part 120 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  22 U.S.C. 2651a, 2752, 2753, 2776, 2778, 2779, 
2779a, 2785, 2794, 2797; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129, 3 CFR, 2013 Comp., 
p. 223.

0
Amend Sec.  120.54 by revising paragraphs (a)(6) and (a)(7) and adding 
paragraphs (a)(8) and (a)(9), to read as follows:


Sec.  120.54  Activities that are not exports, reexports, retransfers, 
or temporary imports.

    (a) * * *
    (6) * * *
    (iii) The defense article is not being exported from or temporarily 
imported into the United States;
    (7) * * *
    (iii) The defense article is not being exported from or temporarily 
imported into the United States;
    (8) Temporarily bringing secured ASE (as defined in Sec.  121.0) 
into the United States; provided that neither the ASE,

[[Page 55461]]

nor the aircraft in which it is incorporated, is transferred without a 
license or other approval under this subchapter to another foreign 
person while in the United States; and
    (9) Taking secured ASE (as defined in Sec.  121.0), previously 
exported from the United States pursuant to a license under this 
subchapter, from one foreign country to another while it is 
incorporated into a survivability-enhanced aircraft (as defined in 
Sec.  121.0).

PART 121--THE UNITED STATES MUNITIONS LIST

0
3. The authority citation for part 121 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  22 U.S.C. 2752, 2778, 2797; 22 U.S.C. 2651a; Sec. 
1514, Pub. L. 105-261, 112 Stat. 2175; E.O. 13637, 78 FR 16129, 3 
CFR, 2013 Comp., p. 223.

0
4. Amend Sec.  121.0 by adding definitions of ASE, secured ASE, 
survivability-enhanced aircraft, and USML, as follows:


Sec.  121.0  United States Munitions List description and definitions.

* * * * *
    ASE means Aircraft Survivability Equipment.
* * * * *
    Secured ASE means a system or equipment that meets all of the 
following conditions:
    (1) Is one of the following defense articles designed for the 
purpose of aircraft survivability:
    (i) Directed/directional infrared countermeasures (DIRCM) systems; 
or
    (ii) Infrared or ultraviolet missile warning systems necessary for 
the operation of DIRCM;
    (2) Is incorporated into an aircraft; and
    (3) Employs anti-tamper measures to deter, delay, and detect access 
to, or exploitation of, critical system components and software.
    Survivability-enhanced aircraft means a manned aircraft meeting all 
of the following criteria:
    (1) Prior to the modifications described in paragraph (2) of this 
definition, was an aircraft in production that:
    (i) Is not described on the USML;
    (ii) Is described only in ECCN 9A991.b; and
    (iii) Was issued either:
    A. A type certificate by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration 
as a transport airplane or small commuter airplane, or
    B. An equivalent certification by the civil aviation authorities of 
one or more North Atlantic Treaty Organization member states or major 
non-NATO allies;
    (2) Has been modified to facilitate the incorporation of one or 
more items of secured ASE as defined in this section;
    (3) But for the modifications performed to incorporate secured ASE, 
would not be described in paragraph (a)(8) of USML Category VIII; and
    (4) Is not described in any USML paragraph other than paragraph 
(a)(8) of USML Category VIII.
    USML means the United States Munitions List in Sec.  121.1.
* * * * *

0
5. Amend Sec.  121.1 by revising paragraph (a)(8) under Category VIII, 
as follows:


Sec.  121.1  The United States Munitions List.

* * * * *
Category VIII--Aircraft and Related Articles

    (a) * * *
    * (8) Aircraft specially designed to incorporate a defense article 
for the purpose of performing an electronic warfare function, excluding 
survivability-enhanced aircraft (see Sec.  121.0 of this subchapter); 
airborne warning and control aircraft; or aircraft specially designed 
to incorporate a defense article for the purpose of performing a 
command, control, and communications function;
* * * * *

Thomas G. DiNanno,
Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security, U.S. 
Department of State.
[FR Doc. 2026-17660 Filed 8-27-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4710-25-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>