<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 179 (Thursday, September 17, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 179 (Thursday, September 17, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 58853-58890]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-19092]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

Office of the Secretary


Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratory (STRL) Personnel 
Demonstration Project (PDP); Defense Health Agency (DHA) Research and 
Development (R&D) Activity, Fort Detrick, Frederick, Maryland

AGENCY: Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, 
Department of Defense (DoD).

[[Page 58854]]


ACTION: Notice of approval of demonstration project final plan.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY:  This serves as notice of the adoption of a STRL PDP plan and 
additional flexibilities by the DHA R&D, a DoD (referred to herein as 
``DoW'') STRL. The DHA R&D is an STRL composed of medical research 
organizations that were formerly components of the U.S. Army Medical 
Research and Development Command (USAMRDC), a successor to the U.S. 
Army Medical Research and Materiel Command (USAMRMC). The DHA R&D will 
adopt the PDP plan of the USAMRDC at the Federal Register issue of 
March 3, 1998, with some modifications. In addition, the DHA R&D 
proposes to adopt certain personnel flexibilities available to all DoW 
STRLs.

DATES:  This demonstration project may be implemented at the DHA R&D no 
earlier than September 17, 2026.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 
    <bullet> DHA R&D: Linda Krout, <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#1a7673747e7b3470347168756f6e3479736c5a727f7b766e7234777376"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="7a1613141e1b5410541108150f0e5419130c3a121f1b160e1254171316">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>, 
Civilian Personnel Chief, 505 Scott Street, Fort Detrick, Frederick, MD 
21702-5000, phone 301-619-7276.
    <bullet> Office of the Under Secretary of War for Research and 
Engineering: Dr. Richard T. LaVoie, <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#7b091218131a091f550f55171a0d14121e495518120d3b161a121755161217"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="d9abb0bab1b8abbdf7adf7b5b8afb6b0bcebf7bab0af99b4b8b0b5f7b4b0b5">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>, 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of War, Science and Technology Foundations, 
4800 Mark Center Drive, Suite 17E08, Alexandria, VA 22350-3600, phone 
703-545-9457.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 4121 of Title 10, United 
States Code (U.S.C.), the Secretary of Defense is authorized to conduct 
PDPs at laboratories designated as DoW STRLs. Through the USW(R&E), the 
Secretary exercises the authorities of the Director, Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM), under 5 U.S.C. 4703 to conduct PDPs at DoW 
laboratories designated as STRLs. The DoW STRLs must have an approved 
PDP plan published in a Federal Register Notice (FRN) and fulfill any 
collective bargaining obligations before implementing the demonstration 
project or adopting the flexibilities available to other DoW STRL 
demonstration projects. In implementing this plan, the DHA R&D will 
establish internal operating procedures as appropriate.

1. Background

    A PDP was implemented at the USAMRMC in accordance with the plan at 
63 FR 10440 (March 3, 1998). In 2019, the USAMRMC was redesignated as 
the USAMRDC and the PDP notice at 63 FR 10440 was updated through a 
minor modification on August 30, 2019, to reflect this change. On May 
5, 2024, following the transfer of USAMRDC components to the DHA R&D, 
the Deputy Assistant Secretary of War for Science and Technology 
Foundations designated the DHA R&D as a DoW STRL. The DHA R&D has 
implemented the USAMRDC PDP authorities for the DHA R&D components that 
were formerly subordinate components of the USAMRDC. This notice 
implements the PDP for all DHA R&D components by adopting the USAMRDC 
PDP plan and includes updates, modifications, and adoptions of other 
flexibilities available to all DoW STRLs.
    The purpose of the demonstration project is to demonstrate that the 
effectiveness of DoW organizations can be enhanced by allowing greater 
managerial control over personnel functions and, at the same time, 
expand the opportunities available to employees through a more 
responsive and flexible personnel system.

2. Summary of Comments

    There were 17 comments received from commenters regarding the DHA 
PDP, 89 FR 89621, dated November 13, 2024. The following is a summary 
of comments received and a response to each.
    Comment: For the Supervisory Bonus (SB), must they have completed a 
supervisory probationary period to be eligible? Can a supervisor get a 
SB, pro-rated, other than the beginning of the appraisal period to be 
used as a recruitment incentive?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. Eligibility for the SB will be described in the internal 
operating procedure. An employee may receive a pro-rated SB as a 
recruitment incentive for filling a supervisory position. To maintain 
the SB upon initial receipt, and thereafter, an employee must 
successfully complete the one-year probationary period and required 
supervisory training.
    Comment: There are Special Salary Rates (SSR) that far exceed the 
with locality amount for certain geographic locations/Occupational 
Classification Code series. How will this apply to converting into demo 
if the SSR is higher than the top of the band?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. The R&D demonstration project does not recognize SSR. 
However, supplemental pay may be granted to address the difference in 
salary between the demonstration project salary and the SSR.
    Comment: For contingent employees appointment Authority, is it 
still relevant to get commander approval for the 6th year when a 10-
year term authority is available?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. This will be addressed in the internal operating procedure 
and includes implementing instructions for the Flexible Length and 
Renewable Term Technical Appointments.
    Comment: Reduction in Force (RIF) rules in Federal Register Volume 
63, No. 41, dated March 3, 1998, are superseded by 87 FR 58334, dated 
September 26, 2022.
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. The RIF rules in 63 FR 10440, dated March 3, 1998, were 
superseded by those published in 87 FR 58334 dated Sept 26, 2022. The 
RIF rules as they apply to the DHA R&D demonstration project will be 
addressed in the internal operating procedure.
    Comment: Is DoD still limited to 40 pay band V positions?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. The original limit of 40 pay band V positions was set by the 
OPM. Title 10 U.S.C. 4091 and 79 FR 43724, dated July 28, 2014, 
authorized the establishment of a new category of positions entitled 
Senior Scientific Technical Managers (SSTM). For the DHA R&D, this 
category is identified as the DB-05 pay band. The total number of 
authorized DB-05 positions cannot exceed two percent of the number of 
scientists and engineers employed at such laboratory as of the close of 
the last fiscal year before the fiscal year in which any appointments 
subject to that numerical limitation are made. If the two percent does 
not equate to a whole number, the R&D will round down to the next lower 
number.
    Comment: Under the performance section, does the employee still 
receive retention years of credit for RIF?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. The rules for RIF will be outlined in the Internal Operating 
Procedures, which will mirror the MRDC RIF IOP #7 and allow the 
provision of RIF as described in 87 FR 58334.
    Comment: For Expanded Development Opportunity, based on new RIF 
rules, retention years credit for RIF no longer applies, is this 
correct?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. Yes, this is correct.
    Comment: Given the age of the MRDC FRN, is the Fair Labor Standards 
Act (FLSA) designations still accurate as identified on Figure 1-
Occupational Families and Pay Bands?

[[Page 58855]]

    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. The FLSA designations listed in the FRN are a guide and 
should not be used as the official designation. The duties of each 
position description are reviewed to make the final FLSA determination.
    Comment: Will the DB05 authority still be exercised at the DA 
level? Are high grade controls still in place
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. The SSTM, DB-05, authority are authorized in 10 U.S.C. 4091 
and 79 FR 43722. The number of DB-05 positions authorized is based on 
two percent of the number of scientists and engineers employed at the 
laboratory at the close of the last fiscal year.
    Comment: Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)--authority 
has not been delegated to sub activity Commanders/Directors; can it be?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. The VSIP authority will be delegated accordingly by the 
agency. No changes to the Notice were made based on this question.
    Comment: What does first line management mean? Does it mean the 
first line supervisor?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. Yes, first line management means the first line supervisor.
    Comment: Recommend rewriting Supervisory Probation period because 
as written it's confusing on how long the probationary period are.
    Response: The supervisory probationary period has been re-written 
to clarify the one-year requirement for a supervisory probationary 
period.
    Comment: A score range of 85 to 100 or an ``A'' rating is quite 
broad when considering academic-type rating. Can the cumulative scores 
for each rating be adjusted and the Alpha character changed to a 
numerical level? Example: Instead of A superior = 85-100, make it a 
level 5 outstanding = 90-100?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. After the implementation of the DHA R&D STRL, the 
recommendation to adjust the rating scores will be further explored and 
if necessary, a minor modification to this FRN will be accomplished.
    Comment: What is DA Form 374? Is it still applicable under DHA? 
Does Army still use it?
    Response: No changes to the notice were made based on this 
question. This form is obsolete and no longer used.
    Comment: Recommend references to the Civilian Personnel Advisory 
Center (CPAC)/Civilian Personnel Operations Center (CPOC) be updated to 
reflect Civilian Human Resources Service Center (CHRSC) now that the 
titling has changed.
    Response: References to CPAC/CPOC were updated to the new name of 
CHRSC, Civilian Human Resources Service Center.

Table of Contents

 I. Executive Summary
II. Introduction
    A. Purpose
    B. Participating Organization
    C. Participating Employees
    D. Labor Participation
    E. Project Design
    F. Personnel Management Board
III. Personnel System Changes
    A. Broad Banding
    B. Classification
    C. Pay-for-Performance Management System
    D. Hiring and Appointment Authorities
    E. Expanded Developmental Opportunities Program
    F. Revised Reduction-In-Force (RIF) Procedures
IV. Training
V. Conversion
VI. Project Administration
VII. Project Evaluation
VIII. Required Waivers to Law and Regulation
Appendix A: Occupational Series by Occupational Family
Appendix B: Project Evaluation and Oversight
Appendix C: Performance Elements
Appendix D: Benchmark Performance Standards

I. Executive Summary

    This serves as adoption of the USAMRDC STRL PDP plan, including the 
following modifications approved pursuant to DoD Instruction 3201.05: 
minor modification to administrative occupational family, DJ-03 and DJ-
04 band structure of occupational series 1102 only (February 3, 2011); 
minor modification to pay for performance payment timeframe (January 5, 
2018); minor modification to participating occupational series 
(November 28, 2022). Upon implementation, the DHA R&D will also utilize 
the flexibilities published in the following FRNs and any future 
omnibus flexibilities that are available to all DoW STRLs:

<bullet> 89 FR 44648 (May 21, 2024)
<bullet> 88 FR 10874 (February 22, 2023)
<bullet> 87 FR 72462 (November 25, 2022)
<bullet> 87 FR 58334 (September 26, 2022)
<bullet> 87 FR 40200 (July 6, 2022)
<bullet> 85 FR 78829 (December 7, 2020)
<bullet> 85 FR 5639 (January 31, 2020)
<bullet> 82 FR 43339 (September 15, 2017)
<bullet> 82 FR 29280 (June 28, 2017)
<bullet> 79 FR 43722 (July 28, 2014)
<bullet> 78 FR 29335 (May 20, 2013)

II. Introduction

A. Purpose

    The purpose of the project is to demonstrate that the effectiveness 
of DoW laboratories can be enhanced by allowing greater managerial 
control over personnel functions and, at the same time, expanding the 
opportunities available to employees through a more responsive and 
flexible personnel system.

B. Participating Organization

    This demonstration project will cover approximately 1,224 DHA R&D 
positions. Approximately 59 percent of covered positions are at the 
following DHA R&D organizations located at Fort Detrick, Maryland: DHA 
R&D, Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research and Medical Research 
Institute of Infectious Disease. The remaining positions are at the 
following sites: Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, 
Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland; Walter Reed Institute of Army 
Research, Forest Glen Annex, Silver Spring, Maryland; Institute of 
Surgical Research and the Burn Center Directorate, Joint Base San 
Antonio, Texas. These positions transferred to the DHA R&D from the 
U.S. Army Medical Research and USAMRDC. The DHA R&D has successfully 
implemented the USAMRDC PDP authorities for the DHA R&D components that 
were formerly subordinate organizations of USAMRDC. Based on experience 
gained and following careful consideration, the DHA R&D has determined 
to conduct a PDP for all DHA R&D components by adopting the USAMRDC PDP 
plan and other flexibilities available to all DoW STRLs.

C. Participating Employees

    The demonstration project includes appropriated funded civilian 
employees in the competitive and excepted service (to include non-
citizens hired in the absence of qualified citizens) paid under the 
General Schedule (GS) pay system and Interns assigned to the STRL. The 
project plan does not cover Senior Executive Service employees, 
Scientific and Professional employees, and Federal Wage System 
employees Personnel added to the DHA R&D in like positions, either 
through appointment, promotion, reassignment, change to lower grade or 
where their functions and positions have been transferred into the DHA 
R&D, will be converted to the demonstration project.

[[Page 58856]]

D. Labor Participation

    The DHA R&D will fulfill its obligations to consult and/or 
negotiate with the designated union as appropriate and applicable in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 4703(f) and 7117.

E. Project Design

    In October 1994, the USAMRMC began development of the specifics of 
this personnel demonstration proposal. A PDP Office was established, 
and administrative support added in April 1995. Briefings of the 
proposal were initially conducted for the workforce at every 
participating subordinate activity with subsequent briefings provided 
upon request by Commanders/Directors.
    Status of the project was provided to subordinate activity 
Commanders/Directors for dissemination to all employees. An electronic 
mail address was established in the Fall of 1994 and made available to 
all employees and managers for the purpose of expressing opinions and/
or obtaining specific information about the project. Review of the 
proposal and input by the U.S. Army Medical Command (MEDCOM), USAMRMC 
workforce, as well as critical and extensive reviews by Headquarters 
Department of the Army, the Office of the Secretary of War, and OPM 
since April 1995, led to the publication of the proposal in the March 
12, 1997, Federal Register. Subsequently, Public Hearings were held, 
and comments from interested parties and the workforce were reviewed 
and considered, culminating in the publication of the final USAMRMC 
demonstration project plan.
    In October 2018, USAMRMC was realigned from MEDCOM to the U.S. Army 
Materiel Command. On June 12, 2019, the USAMRMC was renamed to the 
USAMRDC. During the summer of 2019, USAMRDC began reporting to the Army 
Futures Command (AFC). On December 22, 2019, USAMRDC personnel were 
realigned to the AFC. On May 5, 2024, USAMRDC personnel were 
transferred from AFC to the DHA R&D with the exception of three 
subordinate activities, U.S. Army Research Institute of Environmental 
Medicine and U.S. Army Aeromedical Research Laboratory, and U.S. Army 
Medical Materiel Development Activity Program Manager Soldier Medical 
Devices, which remained with AFC.

F. Personnel Management Board

    The DHA R&D intends to establish an appropriate balance between the 
personnel management authority/accountability delegated to subordinate 
activity Commanders/Directors and R&D management/oversight 
responsibilities by establishing a Personnel Management Board (PMB). 
The Chairperson and members will be appointed by the Director R&D. The 
PMB will serve to provide oversight, policy, guidelines, corrective 
action, and evaluation as subordinate activity Commanders/Directors 
execute the following:
    1. Formulate and execute the civilian pay budget;
    2. Determine the composition of the pay-for-performance pay pools 
in accordance with the guidelines of this proposal and internal 
procedures;
    3. Administer funds allocation to pay pool managers;
    4. Determine hiring and promotion salaries as well as exceptions to 
pay-for- performance salary increases;
    5. Provide guidance to pay pool managers;
    6. Manage the awards pools;
    7. Select participants for the Expanded Developmental Opportunities 
Program, long term training, and any special developmental assignments;
    8. Adhere to guidelines concerning the promotion of employees into 
salary ranges designated ``high grades'';
    9. Ensure in-house budget neutrality to include tracking of average 
salaries, FTEs, etc.;
    10. Contact the PMB designee for problem resolution, recommending 
changes in policy/procedure, etc.; and
    11. Ensure that all employees are treated in a fair and equitable 
manner in accordance with all policies, regulations, and guidelines 
covering this demonstration project.

III. Personnel System Changes

A. Broadbanding

Occupational Families
    Occupations at the DHA R&D will be grouped into occupational 
families. Occupations will be grouped according to similarities in type 
of work and customary requirements for formal training or credentials. 
The common patterns of advancement within the occupations as practiced 
at DoW Laboratories and in the private sector will also be considered. 
The current occupations and grades have been examined, and their 
characteristics and distribution have served as guidelines in the 
development of the four occupational families described below. 
Positions included in each occupational family are listed in Appendix 
A.
    1. Engineers and Scientists (E&S). This occupational family 
includes all technical professional positions, such as positions in the 
biological, physical and social sciences, medical, veterinary, 
mathematical, and engineering fields. Ordinarily, specific course work 
or educational degrees are required for these occupations.
    2. E&S Technicians. This occupational family contains specialized 
functions in fields that provide direct technical support to the 
scientific/engineering effort. Positions in these occupations may or 
may not require completion of formal college course work. However, 
training and skills in the various specialties are generally required.
    3. Administrative. This occupational family contains specialized 
functions in such fields as management analysis, accounting, budgeting, 
contracting, purchasing, legal, business and industry, library, quality 
assurance, and supply. Special skills in administrative fields or 
special degrees are required.
    4. General Support. This occupational family is composed of 
positions requiring special skills and knowledge, such as typing, 
shorthand, or office automation skills, and job-related experience. 
Clerical work usually involves the processing and maintenance of 
records. Assistant work requires knowledge of methods and procedures 
within a specific administrative area. Support functions include 
positions such as secretary, mail clerk, medical clerk, accounting 
technician and supply technician.
Pay Bands
    Each occupational family will be composed of discrete pay bands 
(levels) corresponding to recognized advancement within the 
occupations. These pay bands will replace grades. They will not be the 
same for all occupational families. Each occupational family will be 
divided into three to five pay bands, each pay band covering the same 
pay range now covered by one or more grades. A salary overlap, like the 
current overlap between GS grades, will be maintained.
    Ordinarily, an individual will be hired at the lowest salary in a 
pay band. Exceptional qualifications, specific organizational 
requirements, or other compelling reasons may lead to a higher entrance 
level within a band. The DHA R&D broadbanding plan is expanded to 
create a Pay Band V of the Engineers and Scientists Occupational 
Family. This pay band is designed for Senior Scientific Technical 
Managers (79 FR 43722). Current OPM guidelines of Senior Executive 
Service (SES) and Scientific and Professional (ST) positions do not 
fully meet the needs of DHA R&D. The SES designation is appropriate for 
executive level managerial positions whose

[[Page 58857]]

classification exceeds the GS-15 grade level. The primary knowledge and 
abilities of SES positions relate to supervisory and managerial 
responsibilities. Positions classified as ST are reserved for bench 
research scientists and engineers; these positions require a very high 
level of technical expertise, and they have little or no supervisory 
responsibility.
    The DHA R&D currently has many positions, typically division/
directorate chiefs, which have characteristics of both SES and ST 
classifications. Most division/directorate chiefs in DHA R&D are 
responsible for supervising other GS-15 positions, including branch 
chiefs, non- supervisory researcher scientists and engineers, and 
possibly ST positions. Most division/directorate chief positions are 
classified at the GS-15 level, although their technical expertise 
warrants classification beyond GS-15. Because of their management 
responsibilities, these individuals are excluded from the ST system. 
Because of management considerations, they cannot be placed in the SES. 
Management considers the primary requirement for division/directorate 
chiefs to be knowledge of, and expertise in, the specific scientific 
and technology areas related to the mission of their divisions/
directorates. Historically, incumbents of these positions have been 
recognized within the community as scientific and engineering leaders, 
who possess primarily scientific/engineering credentials and are 
considered experts in their field. However, they must also possess 
strong managerial and supervisory abilities. Therefore, although some 
of these employees have scientific credentials that might compare 
favorably with ST criteria, classification of these positions as STs is 
not an option, because the managerial and supervisory responsibilities 
inherent in the positions cannot be ignored.
    The purpose of Pay Band V (which will reinforce the equal pay for 
equal work principle) is to solve a critical classification problem. It 
will also contribute to an SES ``corporate culture'' by excluding from 
the SES positions for which technical expertise is paramount. Pay Band 
V proposes to overcome the difficulties identified above by creating a 
new category of positions, the Senior Scientific Technical Manager, 
which has both scientific/technical expertise and full managerial and 
supervisory authority. Current GS-15 division/directorate chiefs will 
convert into the demonstration project at Pay Band IV. After 
conversion, they will be reviewed against established criteria to 
determine if they should be reclassified to Pay Band V. Other positions 
possibly meeting criteria for classification to Pay Band V will be 
reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The salary range is a minimum of 115 
percent of the minimum rate of basic pay for GS-15 with a maximum rate 
of basic pay established at the rate of basic pay (excluding locality 
pay) for SES level 4 (EX-4). Vacant positions in Pay Band V will be 
competitively filled to ensure that selectees are preeminent 
researchers and technical leaders in the specialty fields who also 
possess substantial managerial and supervisory abilities. Panels will 
be created to assist in filling Pay Band V positions. Panel members 
will be selected from a pool of current DHA R&D senior military and SES 
members, ST employees, and later those in Pay Band V, and the unit 
Commander to ensure impartiality, breadth of technical expertise, and a 
rigorous and demanding review. The panel will apply criteria developed 
largely from the current OPM Research Grade Evaluation Guide for 
positions exceeding the GS-15 level.
    The pay bands for the occupational families and how they relate to 
the current GS grades are shown in Figure 1. Application of the FLSA 
within each pay band is also shown in Figure 1. It should be noted that 
for recruitment and retention reasons for the occupational series 1102 
and 1105, the DJ-03 pay band range will be GS-11 through GS-13, and DJ-
04 is GS-14. This pay-band concept has the following advantages:
    1. It reduces the number of classification decisions required 
during an employee's career.
    2. It simplifies the classification decision-making process and 
paperwork. A pay band covers a larger scope of work than a grade and 
thus will be defined in shorter and simpler language.
    3. It supports delegation of classification authority to line 
managers.
    4. It provides a broader range of performance-related pay for each 
level. In many cases, employees whose pay would have been frozen at the 
top step of a grade will now have more potential for upward movement in 
the broader pay band.
    5. It prevents the progression of low performers through a pay band 
by mere longevity, since job performance serves as the basis for 
determining pay.
BILLING CODE6001-FR-P

[[Page 58858]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.014

BILLING CODE6001-FR-C
FLSA
    The FLSA exemption and non-exemption determinations will be made 
consistent with criteria found in 5 CFR part 551. Supervisors with 
classification authority will make the determinations on a case-by-case 
basis with reference to documentation in the operating procedures 
manual and the advice and assistance of the CHRSC. The generic position 
description benchmark will not be the sole basis for the determination. 
The basis for exemption/non-exemption will be documented and annotated 
on each description. Exemption criteria will be narrowly construed and 
applied only to those employees who clearly meet the spirit of the 
exemption. The basis for determinations will be reviewed as a part of 
the performance review process and when salary adjustments are 
warranted. Changes will be documented and provided to the CHRSC, as 
appropriate.
Simplified Assignment Process
    Today's environment of rightsizing and workforce transition 
mandates that the DHA R&D have maximum flexibility to assign duties and 
responsibilities to individuals. Broad banding can be used to address 
this need. As a result of the assignment to a particular level 
descriptor, the organization will have maximum flexibility to assign an 
employee with no change in basic pay, within broad descriptions 
consistent with the needs of the organization, and the individual's 
qualifications and rank or level. Subsequent assignments to projects, 
tasks, or functions anywhere within the organization requiring the same 
level and area of expertise, and qualifications would not constitute an 
assignment outside the scope or

[[Page 58859]]

coverage of the current level descriptor, or benchmark position 
description.
    Such assignments within the coverage of the generic descriptors are 
accomplished without the need to process a personnel action. For 
instance, a technical expert can be assigned to any project, task, or 
function requiring similar technical expertise. Likewise, a manager 
could be assigned to manage any similar function or organization 
consistent with that individual's qualifications. This flexibility 
allows a broader latitude in assignments and further streamlines the 
administrative process and system.
Promotions
    A promotion is the movement of an employee to a higher pay band 
within the same occupational family, or to a pay band in a different 
occupational family, which results in an increase in the employee's 
salary. Progression within a pay band is based upon performance pay 
increases; as such, these actions are not considered promotions and are 
not subject to the provisions of this section.
Promotions will be processed under competitive procedures in accordance 
with merit principles and requirements. The following actions are 
excepted from competitive procedures:
    (a) Re-promotion to a position which is in the same pay band and 
occupational family as the employee previously held on a permanent 
basis within the competitive service.
    (b) Promotion, reassignment, demotion, transfer, or reinstatement 
to a position having promotion potential no greater than the potential 
of a position an employee currently holds or previously held on a 
permanent basis in the competitive service.
    (c) A position change permitted by reduction-in-force procedures.
    (d) Promotion without current competition when the employee was 
appointed through competitive procedures to a position with a 
documented career ladder.
    (e) A temporary promotion, or detail to a position in a higher pay 
band, of 180 days or less.
    (f) Impact of person on the job, accretion of duties, or Factor IV 
process (application of the Research Grade Evaluation Guide, Equipment 
Development Grade Evaluation Guide or similar guides) promotions.
    (g) A promotion resulting from the correction of an initial 
classification error or the issuance of a new classification standard.
Link Between Promotion and Performance
    To be promoted competitively or noncompetitively from one band to 
the next, an employee must meet the minimum qualifications for the job 
and have a current performance rating of ``B'' or better (see 
Performance Evaluation) or equivalent under a different performance 
management system.

B. Classification

Introduction
    The objectives of the classification system are to simplify the 
classification process, make the process more serviceable and 
understandable, and place more decision-making authority and 
accountability with line managers. All positions listed in Appendix A 
will be in the classification structure. Provisions will be made for 
including other occupations as employment requirements change in 
response to changing missions and technical programs.
Occupational Series
    The present GS classification system has over 400 occupations (also 
called series), which are divided into 22 groups. The occupational 
series will be maintained. New series, established by OPM, may be added 
as needed to reflect new occupations in the workforce. Appendix A lists 
the occupational series currently represented at the DHA R&D by 
occupational family.
Classification Standards
    The DHA R&D will use a classification system that is used by the 
USAMRDC STRL personnel demonstration project. The present 
classification standards will be used to create local benchmark 
position descriptions for each pay band, reflecting duties and 
responsibilities comparable to those described in present 
classification standards for the span of grades represented by each pay 
band. There will be at least one benchmark position description for 
each pay band. A supervisory benchmark position description will be 
added to those pay bands that include supervisory employees. Present 
titles and series will continue to be used to recognize the types of 
work being performed and educational backgrounds and requirements of 
incumbents. Locally developed specialty codes and OPM functional codes 
will be used to facilitate titling, making qualification 
determinations, and assigning competitive levels to determine retention 
status.
Position Descriptions and Classification Process
    The R&D Director will have delegated classification authority and 
will redelegate this authority to subordinate activity Commanders/
Directors for redelegation to activity managers as appropriate. New 
position descriptions will be developed to assist managers in 
exercising delegated position classification authority. Managers will 
identify the occupational family, job series, the functional code, the 
specialty code, pay band level, and the appropriate acquisition codes. 
Specialty codes will be developed by Subject Matter Experts to identify 
the special nature of work performed. Functional codes are those 
currently found in the OPM Introduction to the Classification Standards 
which defines certain kinds of activities, e.g., Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, etc., and covers E&S.
Classification Appeals
    An employee may appeal the occupational series or pay band level of 
his or her position at any time. An employee must formally raise the 
areas of concern to supervisors in the immediate chain of command, 
either verbally or in writing. If an employee is not satisfied with the 
supervisory response, he or she may then appeal to the DoW appellate 
level. If an employee is not satisfied with the DoW response, he or she 
may then appeal to the OPM, only after DoW has rendered a decision 
under the provisions of this demonstration project. Appellate decisions 
from OPM are final and binding on all administrative, certifying, 
payroll, disbursing, and accounting officials of the Government. Time 
periods for case processing under Title 5 apply. An employee requesting 
a classification decision that would exceed the equivalent of a GS-15 
level may not submit the appeal to OPM.
    An employee may not appeal the assignment of the occupational 
series to an occupational family; the accuracy of the occupational 
family; the title of a position; the accuracy of the position 
description; the demonstration project classification criteria, or the 
pay-setting criteria; the propriety of a salary schedule; or matters 
grievable under an administrative or negotiated grievance procedure or 
an alternative dispute resolution procedure. The evaluation of 
classification appeals under this demonstration project are based upon 
the demonstration project classification criteria. Case files will be 
forwarded for adjudication through the CHRSC providing personnel 
services and will

[[Page 58860]]

include copies of appropriate demonstration project criteria.

C. Pay-for-Performance Management System

Performance Evaluation
Introduction
    The performance appraisal system will link compensation to 
performance through annual performance evaluations and performance 
ratings. The performance appraisal system will allow optional use of 
peer evaluation input and/or input from subordinates whenever 
appropriate. The system will have the flexibility to be modified, if 
necessary, as more experience is gained under the project. Details of 
the system may be found in the implementation instructions.
Performance Objectives
    Performance objectives are statements of job responsibilities based 
on the work unit's mission, goals, and supplemental benchmark position 
descriptions. Employees and supervisors will jointly develop 
performance objectives which will reflect the types of duties and 
responsibilities expected at the respective pay level. Absent agreement 
between employees and supervisors, final authority to establish 
performance objectives and element weights rests with management. The 
performance objectives, representing joint efforts of employees and 
their rating chains, should be in place within 30 days from the 
beginning of each rating period.
Performance Elements
    Performance elements and rating forms have been designed to 
implement a scoring and rating system. The performance evaluation 
system will be based on critical performance elements defined in 
Appendix C. All elements in the performance evaluation system are 
critical. Non-critical elements will not be used. Each performance 
element is assigned a weight between a specified range. The total 
weight of all elements in a performance plan is 100 points. The 
supervisor assigns each element some portion of the 100 points in 
accordance with its importance for mission attainment. These weights 
will be developed along with employee performance objectives.
Mid-Year Review
    A mid-year review between a supervisor and employee will be held to 
determine whether objectives are being met and whether performance 
objectives should be modified to reflect changes in planning, workload, 
and resource allocation. Additional reviews may be held throughout the 
rating cycle; to include possible changes in assigned weights, if 
necessary.
Performance Appraisal
    A performance appraisal is scheduled for the final weeks of the 
annual performance cycle. A special performance appraisal may be 
conducted at any time prior to the final weeks of the performance cycle 
if the employee has been on approved standards for a minimum of 60 
days. Other instances that would warrant a special performance 
appraisal will be identified in the Internal Operating Procedures. The 
performance appraisal process brings supervisors and employees together 
for formal discussions on performance and results in (1) written 
appraisals, (2) performance ratings, (3) performance pay increases and/
or bonuses, (4) cash awards, and (5) other individual performance-
related actions, as appropriate. A performance appraisal will consist 
of two meetings held between employee and supervisor: the performance 
review meeting and the evaluation feedback meeting.
Performance Review Meeting Between Employee and Supervisor
    The review meeting is to discuss job performance and 
accomplishments. Supervisors do not assign scores, ratings, pay 
increases, or awards at this meeting. The supervisor notifies the 
employee of the review meeting in time to allow the employee to prepare 
a list of accomplishments. Employees will be given an opportunity at 
the meeting to give a personal performance assessment and describe 
accomplishments. The supervisor and employee discuss job performance 
and accomplishments in relation to the performance elements, 
objectives, and planned activities established in the performance plan.
Evaluation Feedback Meeting Between Employee and Supervisor
    In this second meeting between employee and supervisor, the 
supervisor informs the employee of management's appraisal of the 
employee's performance, the employee's performance score and rating, 
and any recommended related pay increase, bonus, award, or other 
personnel action. During this second meeting, the supervisor and 
employee will discuss and document performance objectives for the next 
rating period.
Performance Scores
    Selection of the weighted points to assign to an employee's 
performance is assisted by use of benchmark performance standards 
(Appendix D). Each benchmark performance standard describes the level 
of performance associated with a particular point on a rating scale. 
Supervisors may add supplemental standards to the performance plans of 
the employees they supervise to further elaborate the benchmark 
performance standards. The overall score is the sum of the individual 
element scores. Employees will receive an academic-type rating of 
``A,'' ``B,'' ``C,'' or ``F'' depending upon the percentage of goal 
attainment and overall cumulative score. The academic-type ratings will 
be used to determine pay or bonus values. These summary ratings are 
representative of Pattern E in Summary Level Chart in 5 CFR 
430.208(d)(1). This rating will become the rating of record, and
    (1) Employees rated ``B'' or higher will be eligible to receive 
performance-based pay increases and/or bonuses; and
    (2) Employees rated ``F'' will not receive the general increase or 
be eligible to receive performance-based pay increases and/or bonuses. 
A rating of ``A'' will be assigned for cumulative scores of 85 to 100 
points, ``B'' for cumulative scores of 70 through 84, and ``C'' for 
cumulative scores of 50 through 69. An overall rating of ``F'' 
indicates failure to perform at the 50 percent level for any one of the 
assigned weighted elements. (In such a case, even though the cumulative 
score may exceed 49, the employee will nonetheless receive an overall 
rating of ``F.'' NOTE: An ``F'' constitutes an unacceptable rating).

[[Page 58861]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.015

Performance Based Actions
    The DHA R&D will implement a two-step process to deal with poor 
performers. This process may lead to involuntary separation if the 
employee receives a score of less than 50 percent of the points for any 
weighted element. The process will begin with the acknowledgement that 
an employee's performance is unacceptable (any element that would be 
rated at less than the 50 percent level of its assigned benchmark 
rate). The two steps are as follows: (1) Performance Improvement Plan 
(PIP), and (2) either change in assignment (optional), reduction in pay 
or grade (optional) or separation. When the employee is determined to 
be performing below the 50 percent level for any element, the 
supervisor and the employee will develop a structured PIP that will be 
monitored for a reasonable period of time. If the employee fails to 
improve during the PIP, the employee will be given notice of proposed 
appropriate action. The activity may consider a change in assignment or 
reduction in pay or grade as opposed to removal if the mission, 
organizational structure and available resources warrant such action. 
Separated employees have due process recourse.

    Note:  Performance based adverse actions may be taken under 5 
U.S.C. chapter 43 (Performance Appraisal) or chapter 75 (Adverse 
Actions).

    If a PIP ends prior to the end of the annual performance cycle and 
the employee's performance improves to the 50 percent or above level in 
all assigned elements, the employee is appraised again at the end of 
the annual performance cycle.
    If, in conjunction with the completion of the PIP, the employee 
attains an annual rating of ``C'' or higher, they will receive the 
annual general increase. In addition, employees attaining an annual 
rating of ``B'' or higher will be eligible for an increase to base-pay 
and/or bonus.
    If a PIP ends after the end of the annual performance cycle and the 
employee's performance has improved to the 50 percent or above level in 
all assigned elements, employment continues, but no retroactive annual 
general increase, performance base pay increase or performance bonus is 
granted for that performance cycle. No new appraisal will be created to 
replace the failing rating, and the Defense Civilian Personnel Data 
System (DCPDS) will not be updated to change the rating from ``F'' to 
``C'' or higher. Upon improvement, the employee will be placed on a 
performance plan for the next rating cycle, which will begin on July 1 
through the end of the rating cycle (June 30).
Employee Relations
    Employees covered by the project will be evaluated under a 
performance evaluation system that affords administrative grievance 
rights. The DHA R&D will maintain the substantive and procedural appeal 
rights currently afforded when taking action for misconduct and poor 
performance.
Awards
    The DHA R&D currently has an extensive awards program consisting of 
both internal and external awards. While not linked to the pay-for-
performance system, awards will continue to be given for special acts 
and other categories as they occur. Awards may include, but are not 
limited to, special acts, patents, suggestions, on-the-spot, and time-
off, and may be modified or expanded as appropriate. Major Command and 
DoW awards and other honorary noncash awards will be retained. In an 
effort to foster and encourage teamwork among its employees, a 
Commander/Director may allocate a sum of money to a team for 
outstanding completion of a special task or significant achievement, 
and the team may decide the individual distribution of the total 
dollars among themselves.
Pay Administration Introduction
    The objective is to establish a pay system that will improve the 
ability of the DHA R&D to attract and retain quality employees. The 
system will be a pay-for-performance system and, will result in a 
distribution of performance pay resources based upon individual 
performance.

[[Page 58862]]

Pay-for-Performance
    The DHA R&D will use a simplified performance appraisal system that 
will permit both the supervisor and the employee to focus on quality of 
the work. This system will permit the manager/supervisor to base 
compensation on performance or value added to the goal of the 
organization rather than on longevity and risk aversion. This system 
will also allow managers to withhold pay increases from nonperformers, 
thereby giving the nonperformers the incentive to improve performance 
or leave government service. Pay-for-performance has two components: 
Performance pay increases (i.e. base pay increases) and/or bonuses. All 
covered employees will be given the full amount of locality pay 
adjustments (as applicable) when they occur, regardless of performance. 
The funding for performance pay increases and/or bonuses is composed of 
money previously available for within-grade increases, quality step 
increases, and promotions from one grade to another when the grades are 
now in the same pay band.
Performance Pay Pool
    The funding in the performance pay pool will be used for base pay 
increases and/or performance bonus pay. The payouts made to employees 
from the performance pay pool may be a mix of base pay increases, 
subject to the pay ceiling in the pay bands, and bonus payments. The 
Headquarters (HQ), DHA R&D Comptroller, in conjunction with each 
subordinate activity Commander/Director, will calculate the total 
performance pay pool and allocate pay pools to subordinate activities. 
Each subordinate activity Commander/Director will allocate pay pools to 
organizational units or teams as appropriate.
Performance Pay Increases and/or Performance Bonuses
    A pay pool manager is accountable for staying within pay pool 
limits. The pay pool manager assigns pay increases and/or bonuses to 
individuals on the basis of an academic-type rating, the value of the 
performance pay pool resources available, and the individual's current 
basic rate of pay within a given pay band. A pay pool manager may 
request approval from the Commander/Director or his/her designee to 
grant a higher performance pay increase/performance bonus than is 
generated by the compensation formula to recognize an employee's 
extraordinary achievement (also known as payout above) or to provide 
accelerated compensation for local interns.
    A performance payout will be initially calculated for each 
individual based upon a pay pool assignment that will be composed of 
monies outlined previously. For illustration purposes, approximately 
2.4 percent of the value of the combined basic rates of pay of the 
assigned employees will be used. A share will be calculated so that a 
pay pool manager will not exceed the resources that are available in 
the pay pool. The performance payout for an individual will be 
determined as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Pool Value * SALi * Ni
Individual Performance Payout =...........  SUM (SALj * Nj);
                                            j=1 to n
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Where:

Pool Value = 0.024 * SUM (SAL<INF>k</INF>); K = 1 to n
n = number of employees in pay pool
N = Number of Shares (0-2) earned by an employee based on their 
performance rating
SAL = An individual's basic rate of pay
SUM = The summation of the entities in parenthesis over the range 
indicated
i = individual

    To illustrate the formula, the basic rates of pay of the 10 
employees in a pay pool, who each earn $50,000 per year, total to 
$500,000. The employees earned a total of 15 shares based on their 
ratings (5 individuals earned an ``A'' rating, and 5 individuals earned 
a ``B'' rating). The pay pool value is then 2.4 percent of the sum of 
$500,000, or $12,000. The individual performance payout being 
determined is for an individual who earns $50,000 per year and receives 
an ``A'' on the appraisal, thus earning 2 shares. Using the formula, 
the individual performance payout is calculated by multiplying the pay 
pool value, $12,000, by the individual basic rate of pay, $50,000, by 
the number of shares earned, 2. This product is divided by the sum of 
the products of the individual basic rates of pay times the number of 
shares earned, or 750,000. The resulting individual performance payout 
is $1,600 for the year.
    An annual performance base pay increase could be all, none, or part 
of the compensation formula depending on the current basic rate of pay 
of the employee. Annual performance base pay increases will be limited 
to the difference between the particular band pay cap and the 
employee's current basic rate of pay, or total dollar value of shares, 
whichever is less, with the balance converted to a performance bonus. 
This means that employees whose basic rates of pay have reached the 
upper limits of a particular pay band will receive most performance 
compensation as a performance bonus. Cash bonuses will not become a 
part of the employee's basic rate of pay. Employees receiving retained 
rates are subject to special rules governing basic pay adjustments. An 
employee receiving a retained rate whose performance rating is ``F'' at 
the time of a general pay increase will receive no increase in the 
retained rate. All other employees receiving a retained rate will 
receive a general pay increase equal to 50 percent of the amount of the 
increase in the maximum rate of basic pay payable for the pay band of 
the employee's position.
Payout Above
    A pay pool manager may request approval from the Commander/Director 
or his/her designee to grant a higher performance pay increase/
performance bonus than is generated by the compensation formula to 
recognize an employee's extraordinary achievement (also known as payout 
above) or to provide accelerated compensation for local interns. The 
payout above will be calculated outside the mass pay process. If a 
payout above is awarded the payout may be paid as a base pay increase, 
subject to the pay ceiling in the pay bands, and/or a bonus.
Supervisory Bonus
    Supervisory bonuses of up to 10 percent of the basic rate of pay 
may be paid at the discretion of Commanders/Directors to supervisors 
with employees in the same pay band. In exceptional cases (approved by 
HQ, DHA R&D), supervisors who do not have employees in the same pay 
band may be compensated up to five percent of basic rate of pay. 
Employees who qualify for the bonus include supervisors in all 
occupational families with formal supervisory authority meeting that 
required for coverage under the OPM GS Supervisory Guide. The 
supervisory bonus is to recognize supervisory responsibilities required 
of supervisors most often receiving the same pay as non-supervisory 
subordinates. There are two situations in which a supervisory bonus may 
be warranted:
    1. Supervisors may be granted up to 10 percent of the basic rate of 
pay if they supervise employees within the same pay band, or
    2. Up to five percent of the basic rate of pay for those 
supervising employees in lower or other pay bands.

    Note:  Pay band V employees in the E&S occupational family are 
excluded. Bonuses, which must be negotiated annually, will not

[[Page 58863]]

be treated as basic pay and are not a part of the performance pay 
pool.

    Because the bonus is paid at the beginning of the appraisal period, 
if the individual leaves a supervisory position or is removed from 
supervisory responsibilities (unless affected through RIF action), the 
prorated portion of the bonus for the non-supervisory portion of the 
performance year will be recovered as a debt due the Government. Before 
any supervisory bonus is paid, the supervisor (employee) will sign an 
agreement to make any required repayment.
Pay and Compensation Ceilings
    An employee's total monetary compensation paid in a calendar year 
may not exceed the basic rate of pay paid in Level I of the Executive 
Schedule consistent with 5 U.S.C. 5307 and 5 CFR part 530, subpart B. 
In addition, each pay band will have its own pay ceiling, just as 
grades do in the GS system. Pay rates for the various pay bands will be 
directly keyed to the GS rates, except the maximum rate for pay band V 
of the engineer and scientist occupational family which cannot exceed 
EX4. Basic pay will be limited to the maximum rates payable for each 
pay band, except for retained rates as previously described.
Pay Setting for Promotion
    The minimum basic pay increase upon promotion to a higher pay band 
will be six percent or the minimum rate of the new pay band. The 
maximum amount of pay increase upon promotion will not exceed $10,000 
or the minimum rate of the new pay band. When a temporary promotion is 
terminated, the employee's pay entitlements will be redetermined based 
on the employee's position of record, with appropriate adjustments to 
reflect pay events during the temporary promotion, subject to the 
specific policies and rules established by DHA R&D. In no case may 
those adjustments increase the pay for the position of record beyond 
the applicable pay range maximum rate.
Placement in a Lower Pay Band
    Employees who receive 50 percent or less of an assigned benchmark 
score in any element or who are on a performance improvement plan at 
the time pay determinations are made, do not receive performance 
payouts or the general increase. This action may result in a base 
salary that is identified in a lower pay band. This occurs because the 
minimum rates of basic pay in a pay band increase as the result of the 
general increase (5 U.S.C. 5303). This situation, (a reduction in band 
level with no reduction in pay) will not be considered an adverse 
action, nor will band retention provisions apply.

D. Hiring and Appointment Authorities

Hiring Authority
    A candidate's basic eligibility will be determined using OPM's 
Qualification Standards Handbook of GS Positions. Candidates must meet 
the minimum standards for entry into the pay band. For example, if the 
pay band includes positions in grades GS-5 and GS-7, the candidates 
must meet the qualifications for positions at GS-5 level. Specific 
experience/education required will be determined based on whether a 
position to be filled is at the lower or higher end of the band. 
Selective placement factors may be established when determined to be 
critical to successful job performance. These factors must be 
communicated to all candidates for specific vacancies and must be met 
for basic eligibility. As a general rule, appointments will be made at 
the entry level of the pay band and pay will be set at the lowest level 
in a pay band.
    Appointments made above the minimum level will be based upon 
superior qualifications of the candidate. A candidate appointed toward 
the higher end of a pay band should have qualifications approaching the 
lowest GS grade incorporated into the next higher pay band. For 
example, a person appointed at the higher end of Pay Band II in the E&S 
Occupational Family would have education, experience, or a combination 
of the two, approaching the qualifications of the GS-13 level, which is 
the lowest GS grade incorporated into Pay Band III.
Appointment Authority
    Under the demonstration project, there will continue to be career, 
and career conditional appointments. These appointments will use 
existing authorities and entitlements. Non-permanent positions 
(exceeding one year) needed to meet fluctuating or uncertain workload 
requirements will be filled using a Contingent Employee appointment 
authority.
    Employees hired for more than one year, under the contingent 
employee appointment authority are given term appointments in the 
competitive service for no longer than five years. The DHA R&D 
Commander is authorized to extend a contingent appointment one 
additional year. These employees are entitled to the same rights and 
benefits as term employees and will serve a one year probationary 
period. The Pay-for-Performance Management System outlined in this Plan 
applies to contingent employees. Appointment will be made under the 
same appointment authorities and process as regular term appointments, 
but recruitment bulletins must indicate that there is a potential for 
conversion to permanent employment.
    Employees hired under the contingent employee authority may be 
eligible for conversion to career-conditional appointments. To be 
converted, the employee must (1) have been selected for the term 
position under competitive procedures, with the announcement 
specifically stating that the individual(s) selected for the term 
position(s) may be eligible for conversion to career-conditional 
appointment at a later date; (2) served two years of substantially 
continuous service in the term position; (3) be selected under merit 
promotion procedures for the permanent position; and (4) have a current 
rating of ``B'' or better.
    Employees serving under regular term appointments at the time of 
conversion to the demonstration project will be converted to one of the 
following term appointments at management discretion, with no change to 
the existing Not To Exceed date;
    1. New contingent employee appointments provided they were hired 
for their current positions under competitive procedure. These 
employees will be eligible for conversion to career-conditional 
appointment if they have a current rating of ``B'' or better (or the 
equivalent of ``B'' in their current evaluation system) and are 
selected under merit promotion procedures for their permanent position 
after having completed two years of continuous service. Time served in 
term positions prior to conversion to the contingent employee 
appointment is creditable, provided the service was continuous.
    2. The Flexible Length and Renewable Term Technical Appointment as 
published in 82 FR 43339 and the internal operating procedures.
Extended Probationary Period
    The current one-year probationary period will be extended to ``up 
to three years'' for all newly hired employees in all pay bands. The 
purpose of extending the probationary period is to allow supervisors an 
adequate period of time to fully evaluate an employee's ability to 
complete a research cycle and/or to fully evaluate an employee's 
contribution and conduct. The length of the probationary period for the 
E&S Occupational Family will be three years. The probationary period 
for all other occupational families will be two years.

[[Page 58864]]

    Aside from extending the time period, all other features of the 
current probationary period are retained including the potential to 
remove an employee without providing the full substantive and 
procedural rights afforded a non-probationary employee. Any employee 
subject to serving a probationary period that was appointed prior to 
the implementation date will not be affected. The ``up to three years'' 
probation will apply to new hires or those who do not have reemployment 
rights or reinstatement privileges.
    Probationary employees will be terminated when the employee fails 
to demonstrate proper conduct, technical competency, and/or adequate 
contribution for continued employment. When the DHA R&D decides to 
terminate an employee serving a probationary period because his/her 
work performance or conduct during this period fails to demonstrate 
his/her fitness or qualifications for continued employment, it shall 
terminate his/her services by written notification of the reasons for 
separation and the effective date of the action. The information in the 
notice as to why the employee is being terminated shall, as a minimum, 
consist of the manager's conclusions as to the inadequacies of his/her 
performance or conduct.
Supervisory Probationary Periods
    Supervisory probationary periods will be made consistent with 5 CFR 
315.901. Employees that have successfully completed the initial 
probationary period will be required to complete an additional one-year 
supervisory probationary period for the initial appointment to a 
supervisory position. An employee may simultaneously complete the one-
year supervisory probationary period at the same time they complete the 
initial two- or three-year probationary period. If an employee is 
promoted into the supervisory position, during this time the decision 
is made to return the employee to a non-supervisory position for 
reasons solely related to supervisory performance, the employee will be 
returned to a comparable position of no lower pay band and basic pay 
than the position from which he/she was promoted.
Voluntary Emeritus Program
    Under the demonstration project, Commanders/Directors will have the 
authority to offer retired, or separated employees voluntary 
assignments in their activities. This authority will include 
individuals who have retired or separated from Federal service. 
Voluntary Emeritus Program (VEP) assignments are not considered 
``employment'' by the Federal Government (except for the purposes of 
injury compensation). Thus, such assignments do not affect an 
employee's entitlement to buy-outs or severance payments based on an 
earlier separation from Federal service. The VEP will ensure continued 
quality research while reducing the overall salary line by allowing 
individuals to accept retirement incentive with the opportunity to 
retain a presence within their community. The program will be of most 
benefit during manpower reductions as individuals could accept 
retirement and return to provide valuable on-the-job training or 
mentoring to less experienced individuals.
    To be accepted into the emeritus program, a volunteer must be 
approved by the subordinate activity Commander/Director. Everyone who 
applies is not entitled to a voluntary assignment. The laboratory 
Commander/Director must clearly document the decision-making process 
for each applicant (whether accepted or rejected) and retain the 
documentation throughout the assignment.
    Documentation of rejections will be maintained for two years. To 
ensure success and encourage participation, the individual's Federal 
retirement pay (whether military or civilian) will not be affected 
while serving in a voluntary capacity. Retired or separated Federal 
individuals may accept an emeritus position without a break or 
mandatory waiting period.
    Volunteers will not be permitted to monitor contracts on behalf of 
the government or to participate on any contracts where a conflict of 
interest exists. The same rules that currently apply to source 
selection members will apply to volunteers. An agreement will be 
established between the volunteer, the subordinate activity Commander/
Director, and the servicing CHRSC. The agreement will be reviewed by 
the DHA legal office for ethics determinations under the Joint Ethics 
Regulations. The agreement must be finalized before the assumption of 
duties and shall include:
    (a) a statement that the voluntary assignment does not constitute 
an appointment in the civil service and is without compensation, and 
any and all claims against the Government because of the voluntary 
assignment are waived by the volunteer;
    (b) a statement that the volunteer will be considered a Federal 
employee for the purpose of injury compensation;
    (c) volunteer's work schedule;
    (d) length of agreement (defined by length of project or time 
defined by weeks, months, or years);
    (e) support provided by the subordinate activity (travel, 
administrative, office space, supplies);
    (f) a one-page or less Statement of Duties and Experience;
    (g) a provision that states no additional time will be added to a 
volunteer's service credit for such purposes as retirement, severance 
pay, and leave as a result of being a member of the VEP;
    (h) a provision allowing either party to void the agreement with 10 
working days written notice; and
    (i) the level of security access required (any security clearance 
required by the position will be managed by the subordinate activity 
while the volunteer is a member of the VEP).
Voluntary Expert Program
    Under the demonstration project, Commanders/Directors will have the 
authority to offer voluntary assignments to U.S. citizens who are 
retired, separated or on sabbatical from private or public sector 
organizations. The VEP will provide opportunities for these individuals 
to bring commercial sector or public sector knowledge and experience 
into the STRLs. The VEP will not be used to replace any government 
personnel or interfere with their career opportunities. The VEP may not 
be used to replace of substitute for work performed by government 
personnel occupying positions required to perform the STRL's mission. 
The VEP assignments are not considered ``employment'' by the Federal 
government (except as described in 85 FR 5639). The DHA R&D will 
implement the VEP in accordance with 85 FR 5639.

E. Expanded Developmental Opportunities Program

    The DHA R&D Expanded Developmental Opportunities Program will cover 
all demonstration project employees. An expanded developmental 
opportunity complements existing developmental opportunities such as 
(1) long-term training, (2) one-year work experiences in an industrial 
setting via the Relations With Industry Program, (3) one-year work 
experiences in laboratories of allied nations via the Science and 
Engineer Exchange Program, (4) rotational job assignments within the 
DHA R&D, (5) developmental assignments in higher headquarters within 
the DHA and DoW, (6) self-directed study via correspondence courses and 
local colleges and

[[Page 58865]]

universities, (7) details within DHA R&D and to other Federal Agencies, 
and (8) Intergovernmental Personnel Act Agreements.
    Each developmental opportunity period should benefit the DHA R&D, 
as well as increase the employee's individual effectiveness. Various 
learning or uncompensated developmental work experiences may be 
considered, such as advanced academic teaching or research, 
sabbaticals, or on-the-job work experience with public or non-profit 
organizations.
    An expanded developmental opportunity period will not result in 
loss of (or reduction in) basic pay, leave to which the employee is 
otherwise entitled, or credit for time or service. Input for 
performance rating purposes will be obtained from the gaining 
organization to ensure a rating of record is on file and, if warranted, 
a performance award and/or bonus and retention years credit for RIF 
purposes is documented. The opportunity to participate in the Expanded 
Developmental Opportunities Program will be announced as opportunities 
arise. Instructions for application and the selection criteria will be 
included in the announcement. Final selection/approval for 
participation in the program will be made by activity Commanders/
Directors. The position of employees on an expanded developmental 
opportunity may be backfilled by temporary promotion, or temporary/
contingent employees. However, that position or its equivalent must be 
made available to the employee returning from the expanded 
developmental opportunity.
    An employee accepting an Expanded Developmental Opportunity must 
sign a continuing service agreement. If the employee voluntarily leaves 
the DHA R&D before the service obligation is completed, the employee is 
liable for repayment. However, the DHA R&D Director has the authority 
to waive this agreement.

F. Revised Reduction-in-Force (RIF) Procedures

    The DHA R&D will follow the RIF rules as published in 87 FR 58334 
dated September 26, 2022. The RIF rules as they apply to DHA R&D will 
be addressed in the internal operating procedures.
    When an employee in the DHA R&D demonstration project is faced with 
separation or downgrading due to lack of work, shortage of funds, 
reorganization, insufficient personnel ceiling, the exercise of 
reemployment or restoration rights, or furlough for more than 30 
calendar days or more than 22 discontinuous days, RIF procedures will 
be used. The RIF notice period will follow OPM guidelines. Except where 
waived or modified in the waiver section of this plan, grade and pay 
retention will follow current law and regulations (e.g. occupational 
family pay bands will substitute for grade.)
Use of Voluntary Incentives
    The 82 FR 43339, September 15, 2017, authorizes the DHA R&D 
Director to offer Voluntary Early Retirement (VERA) and VSIP 
authorities, as appropriate, to: Approve the use of VERA/VSIP 
incentives; determine which employees should be offered such 
incentives; and determine the amount of VSIP.

IV. Training

Introduction

    The key to the success or failure of the proposed demonstration 
project will be the training provided for all involved. This training 
will not only provide the necessary knowledge and skills to carry out 
the proposed changes but will also lead to commitment to the program on 
the part of participants.
    Training at the beginning of implementation and throughout the 
demonstration will be provided to supervisors, employees, and the 
administrative staff responsible for assisting managers in effecting 
the changeover and operation of the new system. The elements to be 
covered in the orientation portion of this training will include at a 
minimum: (1) A description of the personnel system, (2) how employees 
are converted into and out of the system, (3) the pay adjustment and/or 
bonus process, (4) familiarization with the new position descriptions 
and performance objectives, (5) the performance evaluation management 
system, (6) the reconsideration process, and (7) the demonstration 
project administrative and formal evaluation process.

Supervisors

    The focus of this project on management-centered personnel 
administration, with increased supervisory and managerial personnel 
management authority and accountability, demands thorough training of 
supervisors and managers in the knowledge and skills that will prepare 
them for their new responsibilities. Training will include detailed 
information on the policies and procedures of the demonstration 
project, training in using the classification system, position 
description preparation, and performance evaluation. Additional 
training may focus on non-project procedural techniques such as 
interpersonal and communication skills.

Administrative Staff

    The administrative staff, including human resources specialists, 
subordinate activity administrative officers, and human resources 
points of contact will play a key role in advising, training, and 
coaching supervisors and employees in implementing the demonstration 
project. This staff will need training in the procedural and technical 
aspects of the project.

Employees

    The DHA R&D Demonstration Project Office will make and coordinate 
all arrangements necessary to train employees covered under the 
demonstration project. In the months leading up to the implementation 
date, meetings will be held for employees to fully inform them of all 
project decisions, procedures, and processes.

V. Conversion

Conversion to the Demonstration Project

    Initial entry into the demonstration project will be accomplished 
through a full employee protection approach that ensures each employee 
an initial place in the appropriate pay band and pay preservation as 
allowed by regulation.
    (a) Under the GS pay structure, employees progress through their 
assigned grade in step increments. The DHA R&D demo replaces the GS 
grade structure with pay bands. Employees being assigned to the DHA R&D 
demo from the GS structure, whether voluntary or involuntary, will be 
awarded that portion of the next higher step based upon the portion of 
the waiting period they have completed prior to the date of conversion 
to the DHA R&D demo; this is called a within grade increase (WGI) buy-
in and will be added to the employee's base pay (without locality), as 
long as the WGI buy-in does not cause the total base pay to exceed the 
top of the pay band for which assigned. Employees at step 10, or 
receiving retained rates, on the date of implementation will not be 
eligible for a prorated lump sum buyout of the WGI since they are 
already at or above the top of the step scale.
    (b) Employees who are covered by special salary rates, prior to the 
demonstration project, will no longer be considered a special rate 
employee under the demonstration project. These employees will, 
therefore, be eligible for full locality pay. The adjusted salaries of

[[Page 58866]]

these employees will not change. Rather, the employees will receive a 
new basic pay rate computed by dividing their adjusted basic pay 
(higher of special rate or locality rate) by the locality pay factor 
for their area. A full locality adjustment will then be added to the 
new basic pay rate. Adverse action and pay retention provisions will 
not apply to the conversion process as there will typically be no 
change in total salary. In situations where the special salary rate 
exceeds the adjusted salary rate (that includes locality pay) may be 
considered for a staffing supplement.
    (c) Employees serving under regular term appointments at the time 
of the implementation of the demonstration project will be converted to 
the contingent employee appointments so long as the original term 
appointment was made under competitive procedures. An automatic 
conversion from current GS grade and pay into a new broadband system 
will be accomplished. Each employee's initial total salary under the 
demonstration project will be set as outlined in paragraph (b) above. 
If conversion into the demonstration project is accomplished by a 
geographic move, the employee's GS pay entitlements in the new 
geographic area must be determined before performing the pay 
conversion.
    (d) Employees who are on temporary promotions at the time of 
conversion will be converted to a pay band commensurate with the grade 
of the position to which temporarily promoted. At the conclusion of the 
temporary promotion, the employee will revert to the pay band which 
corresponds to the grade of record. When a temporary promotion is 
terminated, the employee's pay entitlements will be determined based on 
the employee's position of record, with appropriate adjustments to 
reflect pay events during the temporary promotion, subject to the 
specific policies and rules established by the DHA R&D. In no case may 
those adjustments increase the pay for the position of record beyond 
the applicable pay range maximum rate. The only exception will be if 
the original competitive promotion announcement stipulated that the 
promotion could be made permanent; in these cases, actions to make the 
temporary promotion permanent will be considered, and if implemented, 
will be subject to all existing priority placement programs.
    (e) Employees who voluntarily accept a lower pay band where the 
maximum rate is lower than the employee's current salary, pay will be 
set at the maximum rate of the lower pay band.

Conversion or Movement From a Project Position to a GS Position

    If a DHA R&D demonstration project employee is moving to a GS 
position, or if the project ends and each project employee must be 
converted back to the GS system, the following procedures will be used 
to convert the employee's project pay band to a GS-equivalent grade and 
the employee's project rates of pay to GS-equivalent rates of pay. The 
converted GS grade and GS rates of pay must be determined before 
movement or conversion out of the demonstration project and any 
accompanying geographic movement, promotion, or other simultaneous 
action. For conversions upon termination of the project and for lateral 
reassignments, the converted GS grade and rate will become the 
employee's actual GS grade and rate after leaving the demonstration 
project (before any other action). For transfers, promotions, and other 
actions, the converted GS grade and rate will be used in applying any 
GS pay administration rules applicable in connection with the 
employee's movement out of the project (e.g., promotion rules, highest 
previous rate rules, pay retention rules), as if the GS converted grade 
and rate were actually in effect immediately before the employee left 
the demonstration project. The converted GS grade may be used to 
determine placement in non-GS positions.

Grade-Setting Provisions

    An employee in a pay band corresponding to a single GS grade is 
converted to that grade. An employee in a pay band corresponding to two 
or more grades is converted to one of those grades according to the 
following rules:
    (a) The employee's adjusted rate of basic pay under the 
demonstration project (including any locality payment) is compared with 
step 4 rates in the highest applicable GS rate range. (For this 
purpose, a ``GS rate range'' includes a rate range in (1) the GS base 
schedule, (2) the locality rate schedule for the locality pay area in 
which the position is located, or (3) the appropriate special rate 
schedule for the employee's occupational series, as applicable.) If the 
series is a two-grade interval series, only odd-numbered grades are 
considered below GS-11.
    (b) If the employee's adjusted project rate equals or exceeds the 
applicable step 4 rate of the highest GS grade in the band, the 
employee is converted to that grade.
    (c) If the employee's adjusted project rate is lower than the 
applicable step 4 rate of the highest grade, the adjusted rate is 
compared with the step 4 rate of the second highest grade in the 
employee's pay band. If the employee's adjusted rate equals or exceeds 
step 4 rate of the second highest grade, the employee is converted to 
that grade.
    (d) This process is repeated for each successively lower grade in 
the band until a grade is found in which the employee's adjusted 
project rate equals or exceeds the applicable step 4 rate of the grade. 
The employee is then converted at that grade. If the employee's 
adjusted rate is below the step 4 rate of the lowest grade in the band, 
the employee is converted to the lowest grade.
    (e) Exception: If the employee's adjusted project rate exceeds the 
maximum rate of the grade assigned under the above-described ``step 4'' 
rule but fits in the rate range for the next higher applicable grade 
(i.e., between step 1 and step 4), then the employee shall be converted 
to that next higher applicable grade.
    (f) Exception: An employee will not be converted to a lower GS 
grade than the GS grade currently encompassed within employee's current 
pay band.

Pay-Setting Provisions

    An employee's pay within the converted GS grade is set by 
converting the employee's demonstration project rate of pay to GS rate 
of pay in accordance with the following rules:
    (a) The pay conversion is done before any geographic movement or 
other pay-related action that coincides with the employee's movement or 
conversion out of the demonstration project.
    (b) An employee's adjusted rate of basic pay under the project 
(including any locality payment) is converted to a GS adjusted rate on 
the highest applicable GS rate range for the converted GS grade. (For 
this purpose, a ``GS rate range'' includes a rate range in (1) the GS 
base schedule, (2) an applicable locality rate schedule, or (3) an 
applicable special rate schedule.)
    (c) If the highest applicable GS rate range is a locality pay rate 
range, the employee's adjusted project rate is converted to a GS 
locality rate of pay. If this rate falls between two steps in the 
locality-adjusted schedule, the rate must be set at the higher step. 
The converted GS unadjusted rate of basic pay would be the GS base rate 
corresponding to the converted GS locality rate (i.e., same step 
position). (If this employee is also covered by a special rate schedule 
as a GS employee, the converted special rate will be determined based 
on the GS step position. This underlying special rate will be basic pay 
for certain purposes

[[Page 58867]]

for which the employee's higher locality rate is not basic pay.)
    (d) If the highest applicable GS grade is GS-15, and the employee's 
adjusted pay falls within the locality pay cap range, i.e., the maximum 
allowed for the GS-15, the step will be determined by looking at the 
base pay (without locality). If the employee's base pay falls between 
two steps, the rate will be set at the higher step.
    (e) If the highest applicable GS rate range is a special rate 
range, the employee's adjusted project rate is converted to a special 
rate. If this rate falls between two steps in the special rate 
schedule, the rate must be set at the higher step. The converted GS 
unadjusted rate of basic pay will be the GS rate corresponding to the 
converted special rate (i.e., same step position).

E&S Pay Band V Employees

    An employee in Pay Band V of the E&S Occupational Family will 
convert out of the demonstration project at the GS-15 level. The DHA 
R&D, in consultation with the CHRSC, will develop a procedure to ensure 
that employees entering Pay Band V understand that if they leave the 
demonstration project and their adjusted pay exceeds the GS-15, step 10 
rate, there is no entitlement to retained pay; their GS-equivalent rate 
will be deemed to be the rate for GS-15, step 10. For those Pay Band V 
employees paid below the adjusted GS-15, step 10 rate, the converted 
rates will be set in accordance with Pay-Setting Provisions above.

Employees With Band or Pay Retention

    If an employee is retaining a band level under the demonstration 
project, apply the procedures in the Grade-Setting and Pay-Setting 
Provisions above, using the grades encompassed in the employee's 
retained band to determine the employee's GS-equivalent retained grade 
and pay rate. The time in a retained band under the demonstration 
project counts toward the two-year limit on grade retention in 5 U.S.C. 
5362.
    If an employee is receiving a retained rate under the demonstration 
project, the employee's GS-equivalent grade is the highest grade 
encompassed in his or her band level. The standard provisions of pay 
retention under 5 U.S.C. 5362 shall apply to DHA R&D employees, except 
as waived or modified in Section IX of the FRN.

Within-Grade Increase--Equivalent Increase Determinations

    Service under the demonstration project is creditable for within-
grade increase purposes upon conversion back to the GS pay system. 
Performance pay increases (including a zero increase) under the 
demonstration project are equivalent increases for the purpose of 
determining the commencement of a within-grade increase waiting period 
under 5 CFR 531.405(b).

VI. Project Administration

    All personnel laws, regulations, and guidelines not waived by this 
plan will remain in effect. Basic employee rights will be safeguarded, 
and merit principles will be maintained. Supporting personnel 
specialists in CHRSC will continue to process personnel-related actions 
and provide consultative and other appropriate services.

Automation

    The DHA R&D will continue to use the DCPDS for the processing of 
personnel-related data. Payroll servicing will continue from the 
respective payroll offices. Local automated systems will be developed 
to support computation of performance-related pay increases and awards, 
and other personnel processes and systems associated with this project.

Revision

    Modifications may be made from time to time as experience is 
gained, results are analyzed, and conclusions are reached on how the 
system is working. The DHA R&D will make minor modifications, such as 
changes in the occupational series in an occupational family without 
further notice.

VII. Project Evaluation

Introduction

    The main purpose of the evaluation is to determine whether the 
waivers granted result in a more effective personnel system and 
improvements in both intermediate and ultimate outcomes (i.e., 
organizational effectiveness, mission accomplishment, and customer 
satisfaction). In conducting the evaluation DHA R&D will ensure the 
Under Secretary of War for Research and Engineering (USW(R&E)) 
evaluation requirements are met in addition to applying knowledge 
gained from other DoW laboratories and their evaluations to ensure a 
timely, useful evaluation of the demonstration project.
    This STRL adopts innovative practices tested in other STRLs, 
tailored policies and procedures to meet the specific needs of DHA R&D, 
and allows continued exploration and adaptation of innovative practices 
to meet future needs. The STRL flexibilities may be modified, new 
interventions adopted, unintended consequences corrected, and guidance 
clarified as experience is gained, results analyzed, and conclusions 
are reached on how the system is working in a changing workforce 
environment.

Evaluation Model

    An evaluation model for the DHA R&D Demo will utilize elements 
critical to an assessment of the effectiveness of the flexibilities. 
Evaluation will include pre-implementation of DHA R&D data to assess 
actual effect size of transitioning out of the USAMRDC and comparing 
across the likely annual and five-year milestones as a baseline. The 
focus of the evaluation will be on pre-implementation of DHA R&D data 
to assess actual effect size of transitioning out of the USAMRDC, 
intermediate outcomes, i.e., the results of specific personnel system 
changes which are expected to improve human resources management; and, 
ultimate outcomes, i.e., improved organizational effectiveness, mission 
accomplishment, and DHA R&D customer satisfaction.
    Interim evaluations, as requested by the PMB, DHA R&D Director, 
DHA, or DoW authority, are conducted to review and assess the 
effectiveness of STRL features. Qualitative and quantitative data from 
various sources will be used in the evaluation, to include summary data 
from performance rating periods and workforce surveys. Annually, 
reviews and analyses of the performance management system and the 
performance payout process are conducted for consistency, fairness, and 
equity and findings and recommendations are presented to the PMB, DHA 
R&D Director, and/or other authority, as appropriate. The DHA R&D 
reviews and considers the evaluations provided, may revise operating 
policies and procedures, and make recommendations to the PMB.

Temporary Authorities Evaluation

    Procedures for evaluating temporary authorities are incorporated 
into the normal STRL evaluation process as appropriate. The DHA R&D 
Demo Program Manager will provide information on the use of such 
authorities including, but not limited to, hires, retention rates, 
compensation, awards, workforce composition, etc. when requested by the 
DHA, the Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service, USW(R&E), or 
other appropriate requesting authority.

Method of Data Collection

    Data from a variety of different sources will be used in the 
evaluation.

[[Page 58868]]

Sources may include employees, leadership, stakeholder, decision-maker, 
customer, mission partners, etc. Information from existing personnel 
management information systems supplemented with perceptual survey data 
from employees, leadership, and mission-related organizations will be 
used to assess variables related to effectiveness. Multiple methods 
provide more than one perspective on how the DHA R&D Demo is working. 
Information gathered through one method will be used to validate 
information gathered through another. Confidence in the findings will 
increase as results are substantiated by the review and validation of 
results through different collection methods (see Appendix B). The 
following types of qualitative and/or quantitative data may be 
collected as part of the evaluation:
    1. Workforce data.
    2. Personnel office data.
    3. Employee attitudes and feedback using surveys, structured 
interviews, and focus groups.
    4. Leadership attitudes and feedback using surveys, structured 
interviews, and focus groups.
    5. Local activity histories.
    6. Core measures of laboratory effectiveness.

VIII. Required Waivers to Law and Regulation

    Title 10 U.S.C. 4121 provides authorities to the STRL to experiment 
with several personnel management innovations. In addition to the 
authorities granted by the law, the following are the waivers of law 
and regulation that will be necessary for implementation of the 
demonstration project. The below Title 5, U.S.C., and Title 5, Code of 
Federal Regulations (CFR) are waived to the extent necessary to allow 
the provisions described in this FRN. In due course, additional laws 
and regulations may be identified for waiver request.

1. Waivers to Title 5, U.S.C.

    Chapter 31, Section 3111: Acceptance of volunteer service--To the 
extent that the acceptance of retired or separated civilian and 
military are included as volunteers under current statute in addition 
to student volunteers.
    Chapter 31, Section 3132: The Senior Executive Service, Definitions 
and Exclusions.
    Chapter 33, Section 3324: Appointments to Positions Classified 
Above GS-15.
    Chapter 33, Section 3341: Details; within Executive or military 
departments--Increasing 120-Day Increments for Details to 180 days.
    Chapter 35, Section 3502: Order of Retention--Waived to the extent 
necessary to allow the provisions of RIF as described in 87 FR 58334.
    Chapter 43, Sections 4302 and 4303: To the extent necessary to (1) 
substitute ``pay band'' for ``grade'' and (2) provide that moving to a 
lower pay band as a result of not receiving the full amount of a 
general pay increase because of poor performance is not an action 
covered by the provisions of section 4303.
    Chapter 51, Sections 5101-5111: Purpose, definitions, basis, 
classification of positions, review, authority--Applies to the extent 
that white collar employees will be covered by broad banding. Pay 
category determination criteria for Federal wage system positions 
remain unchanged.
    Chapter 53, Sections 5301, 5302 (8) and (9), 5303 and 5304: Pay 
Comparability System--Sections 5301, 5302, and 5304 are waived only to 
the extent necessary to allow (1) demonstration project employees to be 
treated as GS employees, (2) basic rates of pay under the demonstration 
project to be treated as scheduled rates of pay, and (3) employees in 
Pay Band V of the E&S Occupational Family to be treated as ST employees 
for the purposes of these provisions.
    Chapter 53, Section 5305: Special Salary rates.
    Chapter 53, Sections 5331-5336: General Schedule Pay Rates.
    Chapter 53, Sections 5361-5366: Grade and pay retention--This 
waiver applies only to the extent necessary to:
    (1) replace ``grade'' with ``pay band;''
    (2) allow demonstration project employees to be treated as GS 
employees;
    (3) provide that pay band retention provisions do not apply to 
movements to a lower pay band as a result of not receiving the general 
increase due to an annual performance rating of ``F;''
    (4) provide that pay retention provisions do not apply to 
conversions from GS special rates to demonstration project pay, as long 
as total pay is not reduced;
    (5) provide that an employee receiving a retained rate whose 
performance rating is ``F'' at the time of a general pay increase will 
receive no increase in the retained rate;
    (6) ensure that, for employees in Pay Band V of the E&S 
Occupational Family, pay band retention is not applicable and pay 
retention provisions are modified so that no rate established under 
these provisions may exceed the rate of basic pay for GS-15, step 10 
(i.e., there is no entitlement to a retained rate).
    Chapter 53, Section 5371: Health Care Positions--This waiver 
applies only to the extent necessary to allow demonstration project 
employees to be treated as if they hold positions subject to chapter 51 
of title 5.
    Chapter 55, Section 5545(d): Hazardous Duty Differential--This 
waiver applies only to the extent necessary to allow demonstration 
project employees to be treated as GS employees. This waiver does not 
apply to employees in Pay Band V of the E&S Occupational Family.
    Chapter 57, Sections 5753, 5754, and 5755: Recruitment and 
relocation bonuses, retention incentives, and supervisory differentials 
waved to the extent necessary to allow provisions as described in this 
FRN.
    Chapter 59, Section 5941: Allowances based on living costs and 
conditions of environment; employees stationed outside continental U.S. 
or Alaska. This waiver applies only to the extent necessary to provide 
that Cost of Living Adjustments paid to employees under the 
demonstration project are paid in accordance with regulations 
prescribed by the President (as delegated to OPM).
    Chapter 59, Section 5948(1): Physicians Comparability Allowances--
This waiver applies only to the extent necessary to allow (1) 
physicians under the demonstration project to be treated as employees 
paid under the GS and (2) physicians in Pay Band V of the E&S 
Occupational Family who are performing research and technology 
assignments to be treated as ST positions.
    Chapter 75, Adverse Actions, sections 7501(1), 7511(a)(1)(A)(ii), 
and 7511(a)(1)(C)(ii): Waived to the extent necessary to apply 
probationary and trial period requirements described in STRL FRNs.
    Chapter 75, Section 7512(3): Adverse actions--This provision is 
waived only to the extent necessary to (1) replace ``grade'' with ``pay 
band'' and (2) provide that a reduction in band level is not an adverse 
action if it results from the employee's rate of basic pay being 
exceeded by the minimum rate of basic pay for his or her pay band.
    Chapter 75, Section 7512(4): Adverse actions--This provision is 
waived only to the extent that adverse action provisions do not apply 
to conversions from GS special rates to demonstration project pay, as 
long as total pay is not reduced.
Title 5, CFR
    Part 300.601-605: Time-In-Grade Restrictions--Restrictions 
eliminated under the demonstration.

[[Page 58869]]

    Part 308.101-103: Volunteer Service--To the extent that retired/
separated civilians and military can perform voluntary services in 
addition to student volunteers.
    Part 11 Probationary and Trial Periods, part 11: Waived to the 
extent necessary to apply probationary and trial period requirements 
described in this FRN.
    Part 316.301: Term Employment--Adding years to exceed four and 
establishment of Contingent appointments and allow provisions of the 
flexible length and renewable term-technical appointments.
    Part 316.303: Tenure of term employees--Demonstration allows for 
conversion to career/career-conditional appointments.
    Part 316.303(a): Waived to the extent necessary to allow flexible 
length and renewable term technical appointments to count toward 
competitive status.
    Part 316.304(a): Waived to allow a two-year probationary period 
under the flexible length and renewable term-technical appointments.
    Part 316.305: Eligibility for within- grade increases--
Demonstration employees no longer receive WGIs.
    Part 334, Section 334.102: Temporary Assignment of Employees 
Outside the Agency. Waived to the extent necessary to allow the 
provisions described in this FRN.
    Part 335.103: Covering the length of details and temporary 
promotions.
    Part 351, Subparts B, D, E, F, and G: Waived to the extent 
necessary to allow the provisions of RIF as described in 87 FR 58334.
    Part 430: Subpart B, Performance Appraisal for General Schedule, 
Prevailing Rate, and Certain Other Employees--Employees under the 
demonstration project will not be subject to the requirements of this 
subpart.
    Part 430.208: Rating performance is waived to the extent necessary 
to allow STRLs to assign an assumed rating as described in 87 FRN 
58334.
    Part 432: Performance-Based Reduction In Grade and Removal 
Actions--Modified to the extent that an employee may be removed, 
reduced in band level with a reduction in pay, and reduced in pay 
without a reduction in band level based on unacceptable performance. 
For employees who are reduced in band level without a reduction in pay 
as a result of non-receipt of a general increase, Sections 432.105 and 
432.106 (a) and (c) do not apply.
    Part 432, Sections 104 and 105: Addressing unacceptable performance 
and proposing and taking action based on unacceptable performance--In 
so far as references to ``critical elements'' are deleted (all elements 
are critical), and adding that the employee may be ``reduced in band 
level, or pay, or removed'' if performance does not improve to 
acceptable levels after a reasonable opportunity.
    Part 511: Classification Under the General Schedule--To the extent 
that grades are changed to broadbands, and that white collar positions 
are covered by broad banding.
    Part 530, subpart C: Special Salary Rate Schedules for Recruitment 
and Retention. Waived to the extent necessary to allow the provisions 
described in this FRN.
    Part 531, subparts B, D, and E: Pay Under the GS--Determining rate 
of basic pay, within-grade increases, and quality step increases. 
Waived to the extent necessary to allow the provisions described in 
this FRN.
    Part 531, subpart F: Locality Based Comparability Payments--This 
waiver applies only to the extent necessary to allow:
    (1) Demonstration project employees to be treated as GS employees,
    (2) basic rates of pay under the demonstration project to be 
treated as scheduled annual rates of pay, and
    (3) employees in Pay Band V of the E&S Occupational Family to be 
treated as ST employees for the purposes of these provisions.
    Part 536: Grade and pay retention--This waiver applies only to the 
extent necessary to:
    (1) Replace ``grade'' with ``pay band;''
    (2) allow demonstration project employees to be treated as GS 
employees;
    (3) provide that pay band retention provisions do not apply to 
movements to a lower pay band as a result of not receiving the general 
increase due to an annual performance rating of ``F;''
    (4) provide that pay retention provisions do not apply to 
conversions from GS special rates to demonstration project pay, as long 
as total pay is not reduced;
    (5) provide that an employee receiving a retained rate whose 
performance rating is ``F'' at the time of a general pay increase will 
receive no increase in the retained rate;
    (6) ensure that, for employees in Pay Band V of the E&S 
Occupational Family, pay band retention is not applicable and pay 
retention provisions are modified so that no rate established under 
these provisions may exceed the rate of basic pay for GS-15, step 10 
(i.e., there is no entitlement to a retained rate).
    Part 550.703: Severance Pay--This waiver applies only to the extent 
necessary to modify the definition of ``reasonable offer'' by replacing 
``two grade or pay levels'' with ``one band level'' and ``grade or pay 
level'' with ``band level.''
    Part 550.902: Hazardous Duty Differential--This waiver applies only 
to the extent necessary to allow demonstration project employees to be 
treated as GS employees. This waiver does not apply to employees in Pay 
Band V of the E&S Occupational Family.
    Part 575, Subparts A-D: Recruitment incentives, relocation 
incentives, retention incentives, and supervisory differentials. Waived 
to the extent necessary to allow provisions as described in this FRN.
    Part 591, subpart B: Cost-of-Living Allowances and Post 
Differential-Non-foreign Areas--This waiver applies to the extent 
necessary to allow (1) Demonstration project employees to be treated as 
employees under the GS and (2) employees in Pay Band V of the E&S 
Occupational Family to be treated as ST employees for the purposes of 
these provisions.
    Part 752.401(a)(3): Adverse Actions--This waiver applies only to 
the extent necessary to (1) replace ``grade'' with ``pay band'' and (2) 
provide that a reduction in pay band level is not an adverse action if 
it results from the employee's rate of basic pay being exceeded by the 
minimum rate of basic pay for his or her pay band.
    Part 752.401(a)(4): Adverse Actions--This waiver applies only to 
the extent that adverse action provisions do not apply to conversions 
from GS special rates to demonstration project pay, as long as total 
pay is not reduced.

Appendix A: Occupational Series by Occupational Family

[[Page 58870]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.016


[[Page 58871]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.017


[[Page 58872]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.018


[[Page 58873]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.019


[[Page 58874]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.020


[[Page 58875]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.021


[[Page 58876]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.022


[[Page 58877]]



Appendix B: Project Evaluation and Oversight-Intervention Impact Model-
DoW Lab Demonsration Program

BILLING CODE 6001-FR-P
[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.004


[[Page 58878]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.005


[[Page 58879]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.006


[[Page 58880]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.007


[[Page 58881]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.008


[[Page 58882]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.009


[[Page 58883]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.010


[[Page 58884]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.011


[[Page 58885]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.012


[[Page 58886]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.013

Appendix C: Performance Elements

BILLING CODE 601-FR-C

[[Page 58887]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.023


[[Page 58888]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.024


[[Page 58889]]


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.025

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TN17SE26.003



[[Page 58890]]


    Dated: September 15, 2026.
Aaron T. Siegel,
Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense.
[FR Doc. 2026-19092 Filed 9-16-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6001-FR-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>