<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 155 (Thursday, August 13, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 155 (Thursday, August 13, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 52251-52261]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-16503]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

47 CFR Part 8

[CG Docket No. 22-2, GN Docket No. 25-133; FCC 26-48; FR ID 361584]


Empowering Broadband Consumers Through Transparency

AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In this document, the Federal Communications Commission 
(Commission) eliminates or modifies certain broadband label 
requirements to ensure that consumers have clear, accurate, and concise 
information when shopping for broadband plans. Specifically, the 
Commission enables providers to describe label information in a 
natural, conversational style over the phone; simplify fee presentation 
to avoid clutter; remove outdated information from the label; use links 
or icons at point-of-sale to avoid unwieldy amounts of information that 
can overwhelm consumers; and eliminate requirements that go beyond our 
mandate. At the same time, the Commission ensures the labels remain 
accessible to people with disabilities, and that labels are displayed 
in the same language(s) used when marketing a service.

DATES: Effective September 14, 2026, except for instruction 3 (Sec.  
8.1(a)), which is delayed indefinitely. The Commission will publish a 
document in the Federal Register announcing the effective date.

ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, 45 L Street NE, 
Washington, DC 20554.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information about the 
Report and Order (Order), contact Michelle Branigan of the Consumer and 
Governmental Affairs Bureau at (202) 418-1345 or 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#2c61454f4449404049026e5e4d42454b4d426c4a4f4f024b435a"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="4c01252f2429202029620e3e2d22252b2d220c2a2f2f622b233a">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Report 
and Order (Order) in CG Docket No. 22-2 and GN Docket No. 25-133, 
document FCC 26-48, adopted on July 22, 2026 and released on July 23, 
2026. The full text of this document is available online at <a href="https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-26-48A1.pdf">https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-26-48A1.pdf</a>.
    Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis: The Order may contain proposed 
new and revised information collection requirements. The Commission, as 
part of its continuing effort to reduce paperwork burdens, will invite 
the general public and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to 
comment on the information collection requirements described in this 
document, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, Public 
Law 104-13. In addition, pursuant to the Small Business Paperwork 
Relief Act of 2002, Public Law 107-198, see 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(4), we 
previously sought specific comment on how we might further reduce the 
information collection burden for small business concerns with fewer 
than 25 employees.
    Congressional Review Act: The Commission has determined, and the 
Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 
Office of Management and Budget, concurs, that this rule is ``non-
major'' under the Congressional Review Act, 5 U.S.C. 804(2). The 
Commission will send a copy of this Report & Order to Congress and the 
Government Accountability Office pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A).
    Ex Parte Rules: The proceeding shall be treated as a ``permit-but-
disclose'' proceeding in accordance with the Commission's ex parte 
rules. Persons making ex parte presentations must file a copy of any 
written presentation or a memorandum summarizing any oral presentation 
within two business days after the presentation (unless a different 
deadline applicable to the Sunshine period applies). Persons making 
oral ex parte presentations are reminded that memoranda summarizing the 
presentation must (1) list all persons attending or otherwise 
participating in the meeting at which the ex parte presentation was 
made, and (2) summarize all data presented and arguments made during 
the presentation. If the presentation consisted in whole or in part of 
the presentation of data or arguments already reflected in the 
presenter's written comments, memoranda or other filings in the 
proceeding, the presenter may provide citations to such data or 
arguments in his or her prior comments, memoranda, or other filings 
(specifying the relevant page and/or paragraph numbers where such data 
or arguments can be found) in lieu of summarizing them in the 
memorandum. Documents shown or given to Commission staff during ex 
parte meetings are deemed to be written ex parte presentations and must 
be filed consistent with Sec.  1.1206(b) of the Commission's rules. In 
proceedings governed by Sec.  1.49(f) of the Commission's rules or for 
which the Commission has made available a method of electronic filing, 
written ex parte presentations and memoranda summarizing oral ex parte 
presentations, and all attachments thereto, must, when feasible, be 
filed through the electronic comment filing system available for that 
proceeding, and must be filed in their native format (e.g., .doc, .xml, 
.ppt, searchable .pdf). Participants in this proceeding should 
familiarize themselves with the Commission's ex parte rules.

Synopsis

I. Discussion

    In this Order, we eliminate or modify certain broadband label 
requirements to make the label clearer and more usable for consumers, 
and as a result, also reduce compliance costs. Based on the record in 
response to Empowering Broadband Consumers Through Transparency; 
Delete, Delete, Delete, CG Docket No. 22-2, GN Docket No. 25-133, 
Second Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, FCC 25-74, 90 FR 55713 
(Dec. 3, 2025) (Second Further Notice), we amend the rule to: (1) 
enable providers to describe label information in a natural, 
conversational style over the phone; (2) enable providers to simplify 
fee presentation to avoid label clutter; (3) remove outdated 
information from the label by eliminating the requirement that 
providers display information about the now-concluded Affordable 
Connectivity Program; (4)

[[Page 52252]]

clarify that providers may use hyperlinks or icons within account 
portals to make the customer's label ``easily accessible''; (5) allow 
providers to use a hyperlink or icon at the point of sale in lieu of 
displaying the full label; (6) eliminate the requirement that providers 
make label information available in machine readable database format; 
and (7) eliminate the requirement that providers archive labels for at 
least two years after a service is no longer offered to new customers. 
We do so while retaining the requirements that labels be accessible to 
people with disabilities and that providers display labels in any 
language(s) in which they market their services. We also close open 
inquiries from Empowering Broadband Consumers Through Transparency, CG 
Docket No. 22-2, Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, FCC 22-86, 87 
FR 77048 (Dec. 16, 2022) (First Further Notice).

A. Improving Label Display and Content

1. Phone Sales
    We enable providers' phone sales representatives to present label 
information in natural, conversational style by eliminating the 
requirement that they read the labels verbatim to customers. We agree 
with commenters that a more conversational presentation of the labels 
fits the unique nature of the telephone sale, which is time-limited and 
requires the consumer to remember information, unlike written labels 
that consumers can refer to at any point. By contrast, verbatim 
recitation of a document that consumers cannot see serves neither 
providers nor consumers well. Provider phone sales representatives must 
orally summarize the following label fields during the sales 
interaction: monthly price inclusive of any monthly fees, including the 
introductory rate and its duration if applicable; typical download and 
upload speeds; latency; data allowance; contract term duration if 
applicable; and early termination fees if applicable.
    We agree that consumers using the phone to shop for broadband 
service may also want the opportunity to see the label. Some commenters 
urge us to require provider phone sales representatives to offer to 
transmit the full broadband consumer label to the consumer, if the 
consumer so desires, via text message, email, or U.S. mail--consistent 
with the consumer's preference. We decline to do so, but encourage 
providers to direct consumers to the labels on the provider's website.
    The approach we adopt ensures that consumers receive real-time 
disclosure of the fields most material to a purchase decision and have 
access to the full label for review without requiring providers to 
recite a visual document verbatim in an oral format for which it was 
not designed. It also addresses the concerns raised in the record by 
more than a half dozen accessibility organizations: the verbal summary 
requirement ensures consumers without internet access receive label 
content during the call and labels will be easily accessible to 
consumers with disabilities on providers' websites. For these reasons, 
we decline to simply exclude telephone calls from the definition of 
point of sale, which would restrict access to label information for the 
significant segment of the population that engages in telephone 
shopping for broadband service--including many consumers with 
disabilities. To ensure providers retain the flexibility to adapt 
verbal summaries to diverse customer interactions, we also decline to 
adopt a mandatory script for phone label disclosures.
    We conclude that the approach we adopt is within our statutory 
authority. Although the provision of label information in a telephone 
conversation may not literally constitute the ``display'' of a label, 
such disclosure is an appropriate implementation of the Congressional 
intent that the content of labels be disclosed to consumers, especially 
in light of the record showing that the telephone is a frequently used 
sales channel, especially for older adults, lower-income households, 
and consumers with limited digital literacy. We find that in directing 
the Commission to require the display of labels ``to disclose to 
consumers information regarding broadband internet access service 
plans,'' Congress intended to authorize the Commission to adopt closely 
related measures to ensure such disclosure, and did not intend to 
prevent the Commission from ensuring that label content is accessible 
to consumers who use the telephone to purchase broadband service.
2. Passthrough Fees
    Rather than continuing to require providers to itemize 
``passthrough fees'' that can vary by location, we allow providers to 
display such fees in the aggregate, either as a maximum or ``up to'' 
amount for the total fees applicable in any location where the service 
plan is offered, or as the exact total of such fees assessed in a 
particular location. To ensure that consumers understand the fees they 
will pay, we also require that any provider choosing to use the ``up 
to'' option must break out the total ``up to'' amount into two 
categories: (1) the maximum amount of passthrough fees that recover 
government-imposed costs, and (2) the maximum amount of passthrough 
fees attributable to costs imposed by non-governmental third-party 
entities. Thus, providers choosing the ``up to'' approach must include 
a comprehensive ``up to'' amount, as well as an ``up to'' amount for 
governmental passthrough fees and an ``up to'' amount for non-
governmental passthrough fees. For the governmental and third-party, 
non-governmental breakdowns, the label also must provide the types of 
passthrough fees that may be included in each category, but need not 
identify separate ``up to'' amounts for each type of fee in each of the 
two categories. The label must also direct consumers to a provider-
maintained web page with clear descriptions of each type of passthrough 
fee listed.
    The Infrastructure Act directs us to require the display of 
broadband labels ``as described in'' a public notice issued by the 
Commission in 2016, Consumer and Governmental Affairs, Wireline 
Competition, and Wireless Communications Bureaus Approve Open internet 
Broadband Consumer Labels, GN Docket No. 14-28, Public Notice, 31 FCC 
Rcd 3358 (CGB, WCB,WTB 2016) (2016 Broadband Labels PN), which in turn 
explains that labels should convey the information consumers need to 
know ``in plain language that is easy to understand without 
overwhelming consumers with too much information.'' As a commenter 
points out, too much detail regarding fees could draw consumers' 
attention away from more important label information, and research 
suggests that ``excessive itemization creates cognitive burdens that 
reduce consumer welfare.'' Commenters who advocate for retaining 
mandatory itemization of all fees do not persuasively address these 
concerns. Allowing providers to state a total ``up to'' amount, while 
also clearly identifying the portions of that amount attributable to 
governmental and non-governmental, third-party passthrough fees, will 
ensure that consumers can access relevant information in an easily 
digestible format without being overwhelmed with an exhaustive 
itemization of all possible passthrough fees.
    The record also shows that requiring full itemization imposes 
burdens on providers. Itemizing fees often requires providers to 
generate and maintain a large number of distinct labels to account for 
state and local variation in fees across their service territories. 
This creates ongoing administrative complexity, particularly for 
providers operating across multiple jurisdictions.

[[Page 52253]]

By contrast, as demonstrated by the Broadband internet Technical 
Advisory Group (BITAG) maximum value field approach, calculating a 
maximum ``up to'' amount is technically achievable without requiring a 
separate label for each jurisdiction.
    We amend the rule to allow two additional alternatives for the 
display of passthrough fees, rather than requiring full itemization of 
each location-specific fee. First, drawing on the BITAG recommendation, 
we permit providers to present passthrough fees on a single line 
specifying the maximum passthrough fee that would be paid by any 
subscriber across all jurisdictions where the service plan is offered--
that is, the highest ``up to'' amount applicable anywhere in the 
provider's service territory for that plan. For purposes of this rule, 
``service territory'' means the geographic area within which a provider 
offers the specific broadband service plan to which the label applies. 
Alternatively, providers may display, on a jurisdiction-specific basis, 
the exact total of the passthrough fees that subscribers in that 
jurisdiction will pay. Providers may also continue to itemize fees 
individually as current rules permit. The displayed maximum or exact 
total must be accurate, i.e., it must not understate the current fees 
applicable to any consumer subscribing to that plan. If fees 
subsequently increase above the disclosed maximum or exact total, the 
provider must revise the label accordingly. Because fee disclosure must 
not understate current fees, we decline to adopt NTCA's safe harbor 
based on a historical 12-month average, because a backward-looking 
average may not accurately reflect current fees.
    We also disagree with commenters who argue that displaying an exact 
total or maximum amount would undermine the effectiveness of the label, 
increase consumer confusion, or recreate the bill shock the label was 
designed to prevent. As described above, a single line totaling 
multiple fees can help consumers compare plan prices without forcing 
them to make additional calculations. Additionally, a separate 
breakdown of that maximum amount between governmental and third-party, 
non-governmental fees will provide useful context for consumers. This 
approach will reduce consumer confusion, rather than increase it. And 
because the ``up to'' amounts must be accurate, they will not cause 
bill shock, which can occur when providers do not disclose the true 
cost of service at point-of-sale. Including maximum passthrough fee 
amounts will result in some consumers experiencing bills below what is 
displayed on the label, the opposite of bill shock.
    For similar reasons, we reject arguments that an ``up to'' amount 
will allow providers to hide charges or impair consumers' ability to 
understand the fees they may pay. Providers that display an ``up to'' 
amount will still clearly disclose the most that a consumer will pay 
for passthrough fees in any jurisdiction where the plan is offered. 
Further, requiring a breakdown of governmental fees in relation to 
third-party, non-governmental fees will ensure that consumers are aware 
of the types of fees they may be required to pay. Nothing in the record 
supports the point that consumer decision-making suffers when multiple 
fees are consolidated. As long as the exact total or maximum amount is 
accurate, consumers have the information necessary to make informed 
purchasing decisions. With respect to Public Knowledge's concern about 
the absence of a principled limit on embedded fees, we note that the 
accuracy requirement provides such a limit; a provider may not embed 
fees that cause the consumers' bill to exceed the maximum stated in the 
applicable label. Making clear to consumers the maximum aggregate 
passthrough fee they will face satisfies the transparency objective of 
the Infrastructure Act, while potentially reducing the burden of review 
a consumer may experience with an itemized list that may vary slightly 
across different provider labels.
    While we anticipate that most providers will opt to present an ``up 
to'' maximum or an exact, location-specific fee total, some may choose 
to continue to itemize passthrough fees. We expect that over time, 
competitive forces will encourage providers to adopt disclosure formats 
consumers find most useful, and in all cases the accuracy requirements 
ensure that consumers can reliably compare total recurring amounts 
across providers. The approach we adopt preserves transparent, 
comparable information for consumers while allowing providers 
flexibility to avoid label proliferation. We also recognize this is a 
change in course. The Commission declined to allow an ``up to'' 
approach in the Empowering Broadband Consumers Through Transparency, CG 
Docket No. 22-2, Order on Reconsideration, FCC 23-68, 38 FCC Rcd 8238 
(2023), stating that a single figure would not provide sufficient 
transparency or facilitate comparison shopping. With the benefit of a 
more robust record--including evidence that mandated itemization 
impedes providers' flexibility, promotes unnecessary label 
proliferation, and may undermine consumers' ability to comparison shop 
and thereby frustrate the goals of the Infrastructure Act--we conclude 
that permitting providers to display passthrough fees as a maximum or 
``up to'' amount or exact total gives consumers sufficient disclosure 
to enable comparison shopping and more effectively meets the objectives 
of the Infrastructure Act.
3. Affordable Connectivity Program
    We eliminate the requirement that providers include information 
about the ACP in the broadband label. The program ended June 1, 2024. 
We agree with commenters that retaining a reference to an expired 
program offers no consumer benefit and risks confusing consumers who 
may be led to believe the program remains available. We thus decline 
suggestions that we maintain the requirement as a placeholder 
obligation that would activate automatically upon establishment of a 
successor federal broadband affordability program.
4. Customer Account Portal
    We retain the requirement that providers that give their customers 
access to their account information via an online portal must give 
those customers easy access to the label of their current plan. And we 
amend the rule to clarify that providers may satisfy the ``easily 
accessible'' requirement for customer portals by prominently displaying 
a hyperlink or icon in the customer's portal directing the customer to 
the label for their current plan and thus providers need not display 
the label itself in the customer's portal. We agree with commenters 
that access to the label via their portal is important to enable 
subscribers to verify their current plan terms, detect billing 
discrepancies, and evaluate their current plan's suitability to their 
needs. We believe that allowing providers to use a link or icon, rather 
than displaying the label alongside all the other information in the 
portal, will make it easier for consumers to focus on the portal 
information they wish to read and benefit consumers accessing their 
portal on mobile devices.
    Display flexibility should also reduce provider compliance costs. 
We agree with commenters that maintaining label display in customer 
portals entails costly development work, and that a requirement for 
full label display in customer portals ``imposes significant burdens 
and costs without concomitant benefit to subscribers.'' While these 
commenters do not specifically quantify the costs at issue, the record 
nonetheless reflects that full-label display imposes

[[Page 52254]]

some compliance burden on providers, and the clarification we adopt 
here is responsive to that concern.
    We agree that a static label displayed in a customer's portal runs 
the risk of becoming outdated, inaccurate, or misleading as plan terms 
evolve over time. However, the label accessed in a portal should 
reflect the terms of the customer's current plan, rather than the 
original plan purchased if different, to, among other things, enable 
market comparisons and better manage their existing plan. Thus, 
consumers should not be confused or misled as long as their providers 
meet their obligations under the rule of providing easy access to the 
label of each consumer's current plan. While we recognize that labels 
may not specify every charge or discount associated with a consumer's 
current service plan, and thus may not serve as a comprehensive billing 
reference document, labels that correspond to a consumer's current plan 
clearly ``can assist in identifying billing inaccuracies and unexpected 
fees,'' as the rule intends, as well as providing a baseline for future 
comparison shopping. We also disagree with some commenters' claims that 
the portal access requirement is ``divorced from the purpose of labels: 
to facilitate shopping for broadband services.'' In adopting the rule, 
as noted above, the Commission recognized that portal access to labels 
``furthers our goal of assisting consumers with comparison shopping by 
allowing consumers to more easily compare their current plans to 
alternative plans when shopping for broadband service in the future.''
    Additionally, we are unpersuaded that the costs of providing access 
via a link in the consumer's account portal outweigh any consumer 
benefit to subscribers. No commenter attempts to quantify these claimed 
costs. And, as described above, there is ample evidence that the portal 
requirement benefits consumers. Therefore, we find insufficient basis 
in the record to revisit the Empowering Broadband Consumers Through 
Transparency, CG Docket No. 22-2, Report and Order and Further Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking, 37 FCC Rcd 13686 (2022) (2022 Broadband Label 
Order) assessment that ``associating a label that is already displayed 
on a provider's primary advertising web page with a customer's online 
account should not be overly burdensome, and that the benefits to 
consumers far outweigh any costs to providers.'' We also disagree that 
information on consumers' bills obviates the need for access to the 
label. A label provides information (e.g., ``typical'' data speeds) 
that is not included in bills and summarizes key information in a 
recognizable format that supports comparison shopping, which bills 
aren't usually designed to do.
5. Point-of-Sale Display
    We give providers flexibility to use links or icons at the point of 
sale instead of displaying the full label. We agree with commenters 
that this change will better enable consumers viewing broadband plans 
on their mobile phones to read and process relevant information. And it 
will enable providers to avoid significant design and operational 
challenges, especially in the mobile device context, where screen space 
limitations make simultaneous display of marketing content and a full 
label difficult to achieve without degrading the consumer experience 
for either. An icon or link prominently displayed in close proximity to 
the advertised plan and that links directly to the associated label can 
resolve the operational challenges (e.g., by conserving limited display 
space on mobile devices) while ensuring that consumers can easily 
access relevant label information.
    We recognize this is a change in course from the Commission's 2022 
Broadband Label Order requiring full label display at the point of 
sale. In previously declining to allow a link in place of the full 
label, the Commission noted that ``commenters [did] not articulate any 
particular challenges in displaying the actual label alongside a 
provider's marketing materials.'' The record here, however, provides a 
more specific and documented account of the operational challenges 
involved in meeting the display requirement.
    We find that these documented operational challenges support 
modifying the full label display requirement to allow the use of an 
icon or link, provided that any icon or link connect directly to the 
customer's specific plan label and appear in close proximity to the 
associated advertised plan. When a provider places an icon or link next 
to the advertised plan and that icon or link connects directly to that 
plan's label, the consumer is a mere single click away from the label, 
and need not re-enter the address or engage in a time-consuming search 
for information relevant to comparison shopping, as some comments 
suggest. Our approach strikes an appropriate balance between 
operational flexibility and consumer access.
    To ensure consumers can easily compare plans at point-of-sale, 
links must connect directly to the label for the advertised plan or to 
a labels page on which the specific plan is immediately identifiable 
and accessible without additional navigation, address entry, or search. 
This requirement addresses concerns raised by commenters about 
immediacy, minimum-click access, and visibility of labels, which 
continue to guide our approach to point-of-sale display. Providers 
using a link or icon in lieu of the full label must clearly identify it 
as leading to the label so that consumers understand what the link or 
icon represents and are not left to guess whether it leads to label 
information.
6. Multilingual Requirement
    We retain the requirement that providers display the label in 
English and any other languages in which the provider markets its 
services in the United States and its territories. Although the 
Commission sought comment on whether to remove this requirement, we 
agree with CTIA and other commenters supporting retaining the 
requirement and find it is a commonsense way of ensuring the label is a 
useful tool for consumers.
    We find insufficient the arguments of two commenters urging us to 
eliminate this requirement. We see no cost data or other evidence to 
indicate that retaining the requirement will deter providers from 
marketing in languages other than English. In the absence of such 
evidence, it is reasonable to infer that a provider will not incur a 
substantial incremental cost in translating the label to a language in 
which the provider is already conducting marketing, and the consumer 
benefit is concrete and immediate. If a provider has affirmatively 
sought out and recruited customers in their native language, investing 
in the research, outreach, and translation resources that multilingual 
marketing entails, the record offers no persuasive evidence that 
translating a standardized label into that same language would impose 
an unreasonable burden. As CTIA acknowledges, the current requirement 
reflects sound policy precisely because providers that market in a 
given language already possess the translation resources necessary to 
produce the label in that language.

B. Eliminating Burdensome Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements

1. Machine-Readability and Data File Requirements
    We eliminate the requirement that providers make the contents of 
labels available separately in a machine readable spreadsheet file 
format hosted at a dedicated URL, while emphasizing that providers 
remain obligated to make

[[Page 52255]]

labels accessible to consumers with disabilities, including ensuring 
such information is compatible with screen readers and other assistive 
technologies used by people with disabilities. We agree with commenters 
arguing that this action aligns the label requirements more closely 
with the Infrastructure Act's purpose of disclosure to consumers, not 
third parties, and alleviates a significant burden on providers. The 
Infrastructure Act directs the Commission to require ``the display of 
broadband consumer labels'' that provide consumers with information 
about broadband plans. This requirement was modeled on nutrition 
labels, which are focused on point-of-sale disclosure to consumers.
    In requiring machine readability, the Commission appeared to 
believe third-party access advances the statutory objective by 
facilitating the creation of comparison-shopping tools for consumers, 
as well as enabling more efficient data collection and compliance 
monitoring by the Commission, and promoting marketplace research. 
However, the Infrastructure Act's directive ``to disclose to consumers 
information'' and the prior Commission-approved label referenced in the 
Act do not appear to contemplate third-party data aggregation and 
research. Section 60504 only directs us to require the display of 
labels to disclose information about broadband plans to consumers. Nor 
does the Commission's 2016 Broadband Labels PN, cited in section 60504 
of the Infrastructure Act as a description of what we are directed to 
require, indicate that the labels described in that public notice must 
be in machine-readable data file formats for processing by computers. 
To the contrary, the public notice found that the format of the 
approved labels ``displays [the key factors consumers need to know] in 
plain language that is easy to understand.'' For these reasons, we 
reach a different conclusion than the Commission did in 2022.
    We also conclude that the substantial compliance burdens imposed by 
this requirement are not justified by the minimal, if any, likely 
benefits for consumers. The current record offers a fuller description 
of the relevant compliance burdens than was available to the Commission 
in 2022. We also find insufficient evidence that the requirement is 
needed to facilitate transparency and consumer decision-making, as some 
commenters argue. The statute and our consumer-focused requirements 
give consumers the transparency necessary to make good purchase 
decisions. And there is no record evidence that any third parties have 
used machine-readable label content to develop pro-consumer tools.
    Some commenters raise concern that, without machine readability, 
labels will not be easily accessible to consumers with disabilities. We 
emphasize that our action in this Order does not affect providers' 
obligation to make labels accessible to consumers with disabilities, 
including ensuring such information is compatible with screen readers 
and other assistive technologies used by people with disabilities. The 
rules' requirement that labels be easily accessible to consumers with 
disabilities is independent of the machine-readability provision 
deleted by this Order. We remind broadband providers of the guidance on 
accessibility offered by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. 
While machine readability in some form may be involved in ensuring that 
labels are easily accessible to people with vision disabilities (e.g., 
by being compatible with screen readers, among other steps), the more 
specific machine-readability requirement of Sec.  8.1(a)(3)--that label 
content be provided separately in a spreadsheet file format via a 
dedicated uniform resource locator (URL) that contains all of a 
provider's labels--was not adopted to advance accessibility.
2. Archiving
    We eliminate the requirement that providers archive all labels for 
at least two years after a service plan is no longer available to new 
customers and the provider has removed the plan's label from its 
website or alternate sales channels. In adopting the archiving 
requirement in 2022, the Commission assumed that archiving would not 
impose a significant incremental burden on providers. However, the 
current record indicates there are substantial compliance costs, while 
supporters do not point to any demonstrated consumer benefit. According 
to providers, archiving imposes ongoing costs that fall hardest on 
small providers, diverting time and resources from core operations. 
NTCA explains, for example, that the enforcement rationale for the rule 
is ``based on speculative future utility in complaint proceedings.'' 
CTIA and ICLE further contend that requiring archiving of labels for 
service plans that are no longer offered to new purchasers does not aid 
comparison shopping for currently available services.
    We emphasize that deleting this provision does not affect the 
Commission's transparency rule, which requires a broadband provider to 
``publicly disclose accurate information regarding the network 
management practices, performance characteristics, and commercial terms 
of its broadband internet access services sufficient to enable 
consumers to make informed choices regarding the purchase and use of 
such services.'' We believe the transparency rule and the requirement 
that customers maintain access to their current plan label through 
their account portal--as well as other sources of information such as 
the customer's service agreement, monthly bills, and records of any 
plan changes during a customer's subscription--sufficiently address 
concerns that, absent archiving, subscribers whose service plans are no 
longer offered to new customers would be deprived of access to key 
information about their plans.
    The 2022 Broadband Label Order explained that archived labels would 
help the Commission and state authorities investigate potential 
inaccuracies in labels, including in cases arising from consumer 
complaints. Yet it did not point to any provision of the Infrastructure 
Act, nor anything in the 2016 Broadband Labels PN, suggesting that an 
archiving requirement is needed to achieve the Congressional purpose, 
and we affirmatively conclude today that it is not needed. Further, the 
2022 Broadband Label Order merely speculated that giving subscribers 
the ability to request archived labels would help them, without 
indicating why other customer records, including billing and service 
agreements, would not do the same at lower marginal cost.
    We disagree with commenters who say the archiving requirement is 
essential for enforcement. We retain authority to obtain historical 
plan data through investigative demands when needed to evaluate 
potential noncompliance. Providers have other incentives to retain 
records of their marketing materials in light of federal and state bans 
on deceptive advertising. And we disagree that archiving is essential 
for the customers themselves to check if they received the service they 
signed up for. Service agreements, billing statements, and other 
records already provide much of the information relevant to resolving 
billing or service disputes.

C. The Label Template

1. Removing the Template From the CFR
    We adopt our proposal to remove the label template from the Code of 
Federal Regulations (CFR). As we stated in the Second Further Notice, 
our approach will allow us to more easily update the visual layout and 
other formatting

[[Page 52256]]

elements of the label. No party objects to our proposal, and we agree 
with the Accessibility Organizations that we should make sure to 
maintain version control and that updates, including revision history, 
remain publicly accessible. The template will be maintained at <a href="http://fcc.gov/broadbandlabels">fcc.gov/broadbandlabels</a>. We delegate to the Consumer and Governmental Affairs 
Bureau authority to make non-substantive changes to the visual layout 
and other formatting elements of the label. The Bureau shall describe 
any such update in a Public Notice before an update takes effect. This 
delegation does not authorize the Bureau to make substantive changes to 
the template's content except as authorized through Commission action. 
Providers' underlying obligations remain governed by Sec.  8.1 of the 
Commission's rules.
2. Updating the Template
    We adopt our proposal to replace the ``fcc.gov/consumer'' reference 
in the template with ``<a href="http://fcc.gov/broadbandlabels">fcc.gov/broadbandlabels</a>.'' This change, which is 
unopposed, is necessary to enable consumers to access directly the 
broadband label information maintained by the Commission.

D. Eliminating Outdated Rules

    We adopt our proposal to remove Sec.  8.1(a)(7) from our rules. 
That provision set forth implementation deadlines for the 2022 
Broadband Label Order: April 10, 2024 for providers with more than 
100,000 subscribers and October 10, 2024 for smaller providers. These 
deadlines have passed, and providers are now subject to the label 
requirements.
1. Issues From the First Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
    We close the Commission's inquiry into the various proposals on 
which the Commission sought comment in the First Further Notice. 
Specifically, the Commission sought comment on whether to: specify 
additional accessibility standards (such as ASL, Braille, and tactile 
indicators); require the display of labels in additional languages; 
require disclosure of discounts and other price variables in labels; 
extend label requirements to bundled services; modify or supplement 
required performance information; require specific disclosures in the 
label regarding network management and privacy; require interactive 
labels; employ focus groups, surveys, or subject matter experts to 
provide feedback on future changes to the label; publish a style guide 
and implementation tools to assist providers and enhance consistency in 
label presentation; and permit ISPs to submit labels information 
directly to the Commission, in lieu of providing labels directly at the 
point of sale and archiving them. The record indicates that these 
proposals would unduly complicate the display of labels, contrary to 
the Commission's objective that labels convey the information consumers 
need to know ``in plain language that is easy to understand without 
overwhelming consumers with too much information,'' or would impose 
unwarranted compliance burdens on providers.
    Several commenters support the Commission's intention to close its 
inquiry into the First Further Notice proposals, arguing that those 
proposals would impose unnecessary burdens and undermine the 
streamlining objective in this proceeding. Although one commenter urges 
the Commission not to close its inquiry into defining `typical' 
performance metrics, arguing that the current approach results in 
disclosures that are not comparable between providers, we agree with 
the commenters who argue that the current rule is sufficient.
    Other commenters oppose closing the inquiry into additional 
accessibility standards, specifically those relating to ASL-accessible 
formats, Braille, and tactile indicators, arguing that text-based 
accessibility alone does not adequately serve all consumers with 
disabilities. They urge the Commission to acknowledge multimodal 
accessibility as an open issue warranting further examination. We find 
that the requirement that providers make the labels easily accessible 
to people with disabilities sufficiently directs providers to ensure 
accessibility while providing flexibility to meet the requirement. To 
the extent accessibility concerns arise, providers will need to act to 
ensure an individual has access to the provider's labels. While the 
responsibility is on providers to ensure the labels are accessible for 
consumers with disabilities, we also encourage consumers to utilize the 
Commission's Consumer Inquiries and Complaints Center to apprise the 
Commission of any accessibility concerns requiring additional 
assistance.
2. Other Matters
    We decline to exclude mass-market services that are marketed to 
business customers from the label requirements, as CTIA asks. The 
Infrastructure Act directs the Commission to require labels for 
``broadband internet access service,'' as defined in Sec.  8.1(b) of 
the Commission's rules or any successor regulation. Section 8.1(b) 
defines ``broadband internet access service'' as ``a mass-market retail 
service by wire or radio that provides the capability to transmit data 
to and receive data from all or substantially all internet endpoints, 
including any capabilities that are incidental to and enable the 
operation of the communications service, but excluding dial-up internet 
access service.'' Given the lack of evidence in the record regarding 
the costs imposed by the labeling requirement on providers of mass-
market services used by business customers, we find no reason to pursue 
a definitional change.
    We also decline to exclude E-Rate and Rural Health Care (RHC) 
services from the label requirements, as urged by DQE Communications 
LLC (DQE), a broadband provider that exclusively serves enterprise and 
business customers. Although DQE claims that the label requirement 
imposes disproportionate costs and obligations, it does not describe 
with specificity the costs and obligations it incurs with respect to E-
Rate and RHC customers. Given that the label requirement applies to all 
mass-market broadband services, it would appear that, to the extent 
such ``off-the-shelf'' services are requested by E-Rate or RHC 
customers, the necessary labels should already be available from the 
upstream providers of such mass-market broadband services, and thus can 
be readily displayed, with minimal if any alteration, by any E-Rate or 
RHC provider making use of such services. Therefore, in the absence of 
any contrary evidence, we conclude that minimal, if any, cost would be 
incurred by DQE or similarly situated providers in passing such labels 
on to their E-Rate and RHC customers.
    Further, the Schools, Health & Libraries Broadband Coalition and 
the Consortium for School Networking (SHLB/CoSN) list a variety of 
benefits that they claim result from making labels for mass-market 
services available to schools, libraries, and rural health care 
facilities. They state that in a variety of circumstances, including 
limited budgets, lack of competitive options, and insufficient 
technical expertise to navigate complex proposals, a school, library, 
or health care provider may choose to purchase a mass-market internet 
service, rather than an individualized service offered in response to 
an RFP. They add that by providing standardized, clear information 
about services available in the mass market, labels also help 
institutions evaluate bids, comply with program rules requiring cost-
effectiveness, and plan procurements. According to SHLB/CoSN, labels 
also

[[Page 52257]]

assist with documentation for funding applications, which often require 
details such as monthly price, contract length, and speeds--information 
that labels present ``in a uniform and concise manner.''

E. Assessment of Consumer Benefit

    We recognize the importance of assessing, over time, whether 
broadband labels are achieving their intended consumer benefits. 
Accordingly, we direct the Consumer Protection and Accessibility 
Advisory Committee (CPAAC) to produce reports assessing the 
effectiveness of broadband labels, the first to be completed no later 
than two years after publication of this Order in the Federal Register, 
and the following reports to be completed every four years thereafter. 
Each report should address: (1) the extent to which broadband labels 
reach consumers (i.e., are people aware the labels exist and are they 
using them) and any challenges that remain to their use; (2) 
recommendations for how the FCC, industry, and consumer groups can 
better publicize broadband labels to ensure that consumers are aware of 
them and understand how to use them; (3) the extent to which broadband 
labels are accessible for consumers with disabilities and any 
challenges that remain to full accessibility; (4) recommendations for 
how the FCC and providers can address the challenges that remain in 
ensuring broadband labels are accessible for consumers with 
disabilities; and (5) other opportunities to better clarify and make 
more useful to consumers the information on the label.

F. Legal Authority

    We conclude that section 60504 of the Infrastructure Act provides 
the Commission with the authority to modify the broadband label rules 
as discussed herein. Section 60504 directs the Commission to 
``promulgate regulations to require the display of broadband consumer 
labels, as described in the 2016 Broadband Labels PN, to disclose to 
consumers information regarding broadband internet access service 
plans.'' The 2016 Broadband Labels PN described broadband consumer 
labels as an implementation of the Commission's broadband transparency 
rule. In approving a specific format and content for broadband labels, 
the 2016 Broadband Labels PN characterized them as ``a simple-to-
understand format describing the key factors consumers need to know 
when considering broadband service. . . .'' The changes we adopt today 
better align the rules with section 60504 by removing or modifying a 
number of requirements that do not appear to be needed to achieve the 
core statutory objective. We conclude that the label display 
requirements adopted herein raise no First Amendment concerns.
    Sections 13 and 257 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 
which the Commission has previously relied on as authority for the 
broadband transparency rule, provide additional authority. To the 
extent that broadband labels continue to be used for offerings through 
the E-Rate and Rural Health Care universal service programs, Sec.  254 
supplies authority. We also note the Commission's finding in the 
Broadband Label Order that Title III of the Act provides additional 
authority for the rules adopted here with respect to wireless 
providers.

G. Costs and Benefits

    This Order streamlines the existing broadband label requirements by 
making minor changes to the information required to be presented and 
the way in which the information is required to be presented. These 
changes are expected to reduce costs for broadband providers, while 
still providing consumers information to make informed broadband 
purchases.
    First, the Order modifies the requirement for presenting the 
broadband label on a sale by phone so that customer service 
representatives no longer have to read the label contents verbatim. 
This change will allow representatives to communicate the contents of 
the broadband label in a more natural and understandable way, which 
should benefit consumers. Next, instead of requiring providers to 
itemize all fees, which may vary by location, the rules set forth in 
this Order allow providers to include either (1) the ``up to'' (i.e., 
maximum) total amount of passthrough fees that a subscriber would be 
charged in any location where the service plan is offered, or (2) the 
exact total amount the consumer would be charged for broadband fees in 
a particular location. Under both options, the required label content 
is simplified, enabling providers to convey the information consumers 
need to know ``in plain language that is easy to understand without 
overwhelming consumers with too much information.'' In addition, the 
first alternative--displaying the maximum a consumer would be charged--
reduces compliance costs for providers because they are no longer 
required to create multiple labels when fees vary by location.
    Further, this Order allows providers to use hyperlinks to labels at 
the point of sale and in customer account portals, rather than 
displaying the full label. While using hyperlinks to broadband labels 
instead of displaying the labels automatically may result in fewer 
consumers reading the label, interested consumers still have the 
opportunity to view the broadband label. The Order also eliminates the 
requirement that providers provide the contents of labels separately, 
in a machine-readable spreadsheet file format on their websites via a 
dedicated uniform resource locator (URL). Because consumers themselves, 
including consumers with disabilities, will still be able to read the 
labels, we do not expect that eliminating this requirement will hurt 
consumers, and doing so could potentially reduce providers' compliance 
costs. Lastly, the Order eliminates the requirement that providers 
retain labels for two years after they discontinue plans. This change 
will not affect consumers' access to labels for plans currently offered 
to the public and may lower costs of storage for providers. 
Collectively, we expect the rule changes set forth in this Order to 
reduce providers' costs while imposing no material harms on consumers.

II. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

    As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, as amended 
(RFA), the Federal Communications Commission (Commission) incorporated 
an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) in the Second Further 
Notice released in November 2025. The Commission sought written public 
comment on the proposals in the Notice, including comment on the IRFA. 
The comments received are addressed below. This Final Regulatory 
Flexibility Analysis (FRFA) conforms to the RFA and it (or summaries 
thereof) will be published in the Federal Register.

A. Need for, and Objectives of, the Rules

    The Commission adopted broadband label requirements in the 2022 
Broadband Label Order to provide consumers with easy-to-understand and 
accurate information about broadband service plans, as mandated by the 
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. Since the initial 
implementation of these rules, for larger providers in April 2024 and 
for smaller providers in October 2024, the Commission has received 
feedback from industry stakeholders through the Delete, Delete, Delete 
proceeding asserting that certain aspects of the current broadband 
label requirements may be unnecessarily burdensome for providers while 
not providing commensurate benefits to consumers.

[[Page 52258]]

    The primary objective of the Order is to simplify regulatory 
requirements while maintaining the transparency benefits that broadband 
labels offer consumers. Specifically, the Order (1) enables providers 
to describe labels in a natural, conversational style over the phone, 
rather than requiring customer service representatives to read label 
contents verbatim; (2) simplifies fee presentation by allowing 
providers to include either the maximum or exact amount consumers would 
be charged for fees that may vary by location, rather than requiring 
itemization of all such fees; (3) removes outdated information about 
the now concluded Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) from the label; 
(4) allows use of hyperlinks or icons at the point of sale and in 
customer account portals; (5) eliminates the requirement that providers 
make label content machine readable; and (6) eliminates the requirement 
that providers retain labels for two years after a service is no longer 
offered to new customers. At the same time, the Order ensures that 
labels remain accessible to people with disabilities and requires 
providers to present them in English and in any other language a 
provider uses in marketing.
    The Order does not change the core label requirements to display a 
broadband consumer label containing critical information about the 
provider's service offerings, including information about pricing, 
introductory rates, data allowances, and performance metrics.

B. Summary of Significant Issues Raised by Public Comments in Response 
to the IRFA

    NTCA, WISPA, Breezeline, ACA Connects, and Joink filed comments 
regarding the impact of the rule on small entities.
    NTCA--The Rural Broadband Association (NTCA) was the only commenter 
to include a section specifically responding to the IRFA. NTCA, which 
represents small, rural local exchange carriers, supports the 
Commission's proposals as burden-relieving for small entities, and 
urged the Commission to avoid imposing any additional requirements 
beyond those proposed in the FNRPM. NTCA identified a material 
inconsistency between the 2023 Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Worksheet 
supporting this proceeding, which estimated zero capital, operation, 
and maintenance costs for small companies, and the Commission's own 
acknowledgement in the Broadband Label Order that certain label tasks 
``may require more time for providers that are less likely to have in-
house attorneys and compliance departments to assist in the preparation 
broadband labels, and thus will need to engage outside legal resources 
to implement several proposed requirements.'' NTCA further argued that 
even reliance on existing internal staff generates real opportunity 
costs, as compliance draws resources away from network investment and 
other operational priorities, concluding that elimination of the 
identified requirements would provide meaningful economic benefits to 
small providers.
    WISPA, Breezeline, ACA Connects, and Joink also raised cost and 
burden concerns to small entities in their comments on the Notice more 
generally. These commenters supported the proposed eliminations as 
measures that would reduce unnecessary compliance costs and 
administrative burden for providers, including small entities, without 
undermining the consumer transparency goals of the broadband label 
requirements.
    USTelecom and other commenters noted compliance costs and burdens 
associated with the existing broadband label requirements but did not 
specifically address the impacts of those requirements on small 
entities.

C. Response to Comments by the Chief Counsel for the Small Business 
Administration Office of Advocacy

    Pursuant to the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, which amended the 
RFA, the Commission is required to respond to any comments filed by the 
Chief Counsel for the Small Business Administration (SBA) Office of 
Advocacy, and also provide a detailed statement of any change made to 
the proposed rules as a result of those comments. The Chief Counsel did 
not file any comments in response to the proposed rules in this 
proceeding.

D. Description and Estimate of the Number of Small Entities to Which 
the Rules Will Apply

    The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of, and where 
feasible, an estimate of the number of small entities that may be 
affected by the adopted rules. The RFA generally defines the term 
``small entity'' as having the same meaning as the terms ``small 
business,'' ``small organization,'' and ``small governmental 
jurisdiction.'' In addition, the term ``small business'' has the same 
meaning as the term ``small business concern'' under the Small Business 
Act. A ``small business concern'' is one which: (1) is independently 
owned and operated; (2) is not dominant in its field of operation; and 
(3) satisfies any additional criteria established by the SBA. The SBA 
establishes small business size standards that agencies are required to 
use when promulgating regulations relating to small businesses; 
agencies may establish alternative size standards for use in such 
programs, but must consult and obtain approval from SBA before doing 
so.
    Our actions, over time, may affect small entities that are not 
easily categorized at present. We therefore describe three broad groups 
of small entities that could be directly affected by our actions. In 
general, a small business is an independent business having fewer than 
500 employees. These types of small businesses represent 99.9% of all 
businesses in the United States, which translates to 34.75 million 
businesses. Next, ``small organizations'' are not-for-profit 
enterprises that are independently owned and operated and are not 
dominant in their field. While we do not have data regarding the number 
of non-profits that meet that criteria, over 99 percent of nonprofits 
have fewer than 500 employees. Finally, ``small governmental 
jurisdictions'' are defined as cities, counties, towns, townships, 
villages, school districts, or special districts with populations of 
less than fifty thousand. Based on the 2022 U.S. Census of Governments 
data, we estimate that at least 48,724 out of 90,835 local government 
jurisdictions have a population of less than 50,000.
    The rules adopted in the Order will apply to small entities in the 
industries identified in the chart below by their six-digit North 
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes and corresponding 
SBA size standard. Where available, we also provide additional 
information regarding the number of potentially affected entities in 
the identified industries below.

                                 Table 1--Census Bureau Data by NAICS Code Table
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Regulated industry (NAICS                        SBA size                                       % Small firms
        classification)           NAICS code        standard        Total firms     Small firms     in industry
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wired Telecommunications                517111  1,500 employees.           3,054           2,964           97.05
 Carriers.

[[Page 52259]]

 
Wireless Telecommunications             517112  1,500 employees.           2,893           2,837           98.06
 Carriers (except Satellite).
Telecommunications Resellers..          517121  1,500 employees.           1,386           1,375           99.21
Satellite Telecommunications..          517410  $47 million.....             275             242           88.00
All Other Telecommunications..          517810  $40 million.....           1,079           1,039           96.29
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                Table 2--Telecommunications Service Provider Data
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   2024 Universal service monitoring report telecommunications          SBA size standard (1,500 employees)
        service provider data (data as of December 2023)         -----------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------   Total # FCC
                                                                     Form 499A      Small firms       % Small
                         Affected entity                              filers                         entities
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (Incumbent LECs)..............           1,175             917           78.04
Interexchange Carriers (IXCs)...................................             113              95           84.07
Local Exchange Carriers (LECs)..................................           4,904           4,493           91.62
Local Resellers.................................................             222             217           97.75
Toll Resellers..................................................             411             398           96.84
Telecommunications Resellers....................................             633             615           97.16
Wired Telecommunications Carriers...............................           4,682           4,276           91.33
Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite).........             585             498           85.13
Wireless Telephony..............................................             326             247           75.77
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

E. Description of Economic Impact and Projected Reporting, 
Recordkeeping and Other Compliance Requirements for Small Entities

    The RFA directs agencies to describe the economic impact of adopted 
rules on small entities, as well as projected reporting, recordkeeping 
and other compliance requirements, including an estimate of the classes 
of small entities which will be subject to the requirement and the type 
of professional skills necessary for preparation of the report or 
record.
    The Order streamlines existing broadband label requirements by 
making targeted changes to the information providers are required to 
provide and to the manner in which it must be displayed. The Commission 
expects these changes to reduce costs for providers, including small 
entities, while continuing to provide consumers with information needed 
to make informed broadband purchasing decisions. The Commission expects 
the rule changes set forth in this Order to reduce provider costs while 
imposing no material harm on consumers.
    The Order's changes reduce compliance obligations in the following 
respects, each of which is particularly beneficial to small entities 
that are less likely than large providers to maintain dedicated in-
house legal and technical compliance staff. First, the fee presentation 
change allows providers to disclose the maximum or exact amount 
consumers would be charged for location-variable fees, eliminating the 
need to create and maintain multiple location-specific labels. Second, 
the point of sale and account portal changes allow providers to use 
hyperlinks or icons in lieu of the full label display, reducing the 
technical burden of full label display systems. Third, elimination of 
the machine readability requirement removes a technical backend 
obligation that imposed costs without commensurate consumer benefit. 
Fourth, the telephone sales modification allows customer service 
representatives to describe label contents conversationally rather than 
verbatim, reducing training and scripting burdens. Fifth, elimination 
of the two-year archiving requirement may lower storage costs. Sixth, 
removal of the outdated ACP information (ACP) eliminates the need to 
maintain a label element that no longer serves any consumer information 
purpose.
    The core broadband label requirements remain in effect for all 
providers, including small entities. Providers must continue to display 
a label containing critical information pricing, introductory rates, 
data allowances, and performance metrics. Compliance will continue to 
require professional skills in legal compliance, marketing, and 
broadband technology. Small entities that lack in-house compliance 
staff may continue to require professional assistance, although we 
expect that the elimination of several requirements will substantially 
reduce the scope and cost of such assistance.
    The Order does not impose any new reporting, recordkeeping, or 
other compliance obligations on small entities. All adopted changes 
reduce burdens relative to existing requirements.

F. Discussion of Steps Taken To Minimize the Significant Economic 
Impact on Small Entities, and Significant Alternatives Considered

    The RFA requires an agency to provide ``a description of the steps 
the agency has taken to minimize the significant economic impact on 
small entities . . . including a statement of the factual, policy, and 
legal reasons for selecting the alternative adopted in the final rule 
and why each one of the other significant alternatives to the rule 
considered by the agency which affect the impact on small entities was 
rejected.''
    Elimination of six compliance requirements. The most significant 
step taken to minimize economic impact on small entities is the 
elimination of six compliance requirements that generated 
disproportionate administrative, technical and financial burden, 
particularly for smaller providers, without commensurate consumer 
benefit. The legal and policy basis for each elimination is grounded in 
the Commission's finding that these requirements were not mandated by 
the Infrastructure Act or the 2016 Broadband Labels PN and thus

[[Page 52260]]

exceeded the Commission's statutory mandate. Eliminating requirements 
that lack statutory grounding and imposed real costs on small entities 
directly advances the RFA's objectives.
    Fee Presentation Flexibility. Rather than requiring itemization of 
all location-variable fees, which entailed creating multiple label 
versions for different service areas, the Order allows providers to 
disclose either the maximum or exact amount a consumer will be charged 
for these fees. This approach achieves the transparency goal while 
substantially reducing administrative complexity, especially for small 
entities serving multiple geographic markets.
    Hyperlink and Icon Alternative. The Order allows providers to 
satisfy point of sale and customer portal display requirements through 
hyperlinks or icons linking to broadband labels rather than full-label 
display at the point of sale. This reduces the technical burden of 
label display systems while preserving consumer access to label 
information.
    Implementation Timing. The Commission notes that the Broadband 
Label Order provided differential implementation timelines, giving 
smaller providers (those with 100,000 or fewer subscribers) a six-month 
extension beyond the deadline applicable to large providers. Because 
the changes adopted in this Order exclusively reduce compliance 
obligations, no additional differential implantation schedule for small 
entities is necessary. The Commission also removes the now-moot 
deadline provision at Sec.  8.1(a)(7) to streamline the rules.

List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 8

    Communications, Consumer protection, Labeling, Reporting and 
recordkeeping requirements, Telecommunications, Telephone.

Federal Communications Commission.
Aleta Bowers,
Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office of the Secretary.

Final Rules

    For the reasons discussed in the preamble, the Federal 
Communications Commission amends 47 CFR part 8 as follows:

PART 8--INTERNET TRANSPARENCY FOR CONSUMERS

0
1. The authority citation for part 8 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  47 U.S.C. 151, 152, 154, 201(b), 257, 302a, 303(r), 
312, 333, 503 and 1753.

Subpart A--Broadband Transparency

0
2. Amend Sec.  8.1 by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows:


Sec.  8.1  Transparency.

* * * * *
    (b)(1) Broadband internet access service is a mass-market retail 
service by wire or radio that provides the capability to transmit data 
to and receive data from all or substantially all internet endpoints, 
including any capabilities that are incidental to and enable the 
operation of the communications service, but excluding dial-up internet 
access service. This term also encompasses any service that the 
Commission finds to be providing a functional equivalent of the service 
described in the previous sentence or that is used to evade the 
protections set forth in this part. For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) 
through (6) of this section, ``mass-market'' services exclude service 
offerings customized for the customer through individually negotiated 
agreements even when the services are supported by Federal universal 
service support.
    (2) In this section, ``passthrough fee'' means a monthly charge 
that:
    (i) Is imposed by a government entity or third-party infrastructure 
owner rather than set by the provider itself;
    (ii) Represents costs that the provider chooses to recover from 
consumers as a separate charge rather than incorporating them into the 
base monthly price; and
    (iii) Varies by consumer location.
* * * * *

0
3. Delayed indefinitely, further amend Sec.  8.1 by:
0
a. Revising paragraphs (a)(1) and (2); and
0
b. Removing and reserving paragraphs (a)(3), (5), and (7).
    The revisions read as follows:


Sec.  8.1  Transparency.

    (a) * * *
    (1)(i) Any person providing broadband internet access service shall 
create and display an accurate broadband consumer label for each stand-
alone broadband internet access service it currently offers for 
purchase. The label must be prominently displayed, publicly available, 
and easily accessible to consumers, including consumers with 
disabilities, at the point of sale with the content and in the format 
prescribed by the Commission in ``[Fixed or Mobile] Broadband Consumer 
Disclosure Label,'' located at www.<a href="http://fcc.gov/broadbandlabels">fcc.gov/broadbandlabels</a> labels.
    (ii) A label shall itemize any monthly fees not included in the 
monthly price, except that passthrough fees may be presented in the 
aggregate, as either the maximum monthly total or the exact monthly 
total of such fees assessed on subscribers in the geographic area to 
which the label applies. Providers opting to display passthrough fees 
as a maximum ``up to'' amount must additionally provide on the label a 
breakdown of this amount into a maximum ``up to'' amount for 
passthrough fees that recover government-imposed costs and a maximum 
``up to'' amount for passthrough fees that recover costs imposed by 
non-governmental, third-party infrastructure owners, and the types of 
fees included in each of the two categories.
    (2)(i) Broadband internet access service providers shall display 
the label required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section at each point 
of sale. Point of sale is defined to mean a provider's website and any 
alternate sales channels through which the provider's broadband 
internet access service is sold, including provider-owned retail 
locations, third-party retail locations, and telephone sales channels. 
For labels displayed on provider websites, the label (or an icon or 
link that connects directly to the label and is clearly identified as a 
way to access the label for the advertised plan) must be displayed in 
close proximity to the associated advertised service plan. Point of 
sale also means the time a consumer begins investigating and comparing 
broadband service offerings available to them at their location. For 
alternate sales channels, providers must document each instance when it 
directs a consumer to a label and retain such documentation for two 
years. This requirement will be deemed satisfied if, instead, the 
provider: establishes the business practices and processes it will 
follow in distributing the label through alternative sales channels; 
retains training materials and related business practice documentation 
for two years; and provides such information to the Commission upon 
request, within thirty days. Point of sale for purposes of the E-Rate 
and Rural Health Care programs is defined as the time a service 
provider submits its bid to a program participant. Providers 
participating in the E-Rate and Rural Health Care programs must provide 
their labels to program participants when they submit their bids to 
participants.
    (ii) Broadband internet access service providers that offer online 
account portals to their customers shall also make each customer's 
current plan label easily accessible to the customer in such portals, 
by displaying the label (or an

[[Page 52261]]

icon or link that connects directly to the label).
    (iii) At telephone points of sale, a provider satisfies the display 
requirement of this paragraph (a)(2) by orally summarizing the 
following label fields during the sales interaction: monthly price 
inclusive of monthly fees, including the introductory rate and its 
duration if applicable; typical download and upload speeds; latency; 
data allowance; contract term duration if applicable; and early 
termination fees if applicable. Verbatim recitation of the label is not 
required to satisfy this obligation.
* * * * *
[FR Doc. 2026-16503 Filed 8-12-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6712-01-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>