<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 177 (Tuesday, September 15, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 177 (Tuesday, September 15, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 58382-58386]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-18849]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

50 CFR Part 665

[Docket No. 260910-0004]
RIN 0648-BN81


Pacific Island Fisheries; Catch and Retention Limits for Striped 
Marlin in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean North of the Equator

AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: This final rule implements a framework for specifying catch 
limits for all U.S. fisheries and retention limits

[[Page 58383]]

by U.S. longline fisheries under a Hawaii longline limited entry permit 
for Western and Central North Pacific Ocean (WCNPO) striped marlin 
(Kajikia audax), consistent with the requirements of Western and 
Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC) Conservation and 
Management Measure (CMM) 2024-06. If the retention limit is reached, 
NMFS will prohibit retention of WCNPO striped marlin by longline 
fishing vessels until the end of the year to prevent the U.S. catch 
limit from being exceeded. Because the U.S. limit under the framework 
can change each year, NMFS will specify the updated catch and longline 
retention limits by notice in the Federal Register early each calendar 
year. For fishing year 2026, NMFS specifies a U.S. WCNPO striped marlin 
limit of 393.4 metric tons (mt) (867,300 pounds (lb)) and a U.S. 
longline retention limit of 381.6 mt (841,300 lb) using the framework.

DATES: The final rule is effective October 14, 2026.

ADDRESSES: Copies of the Fishery Ecosystem Plan for Pelagic Fisheries 
of the Western Pacific Region (FEP) are available from the Western 
Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council), 1164 Bishop St., Suite 
1400, Honolulu, HI 96813, tel. 808-522-8220, fax 808-522-8226, or 
<a href="https://www.wpcouncil.org">https://www.wpcouncil.org</a>. Copies of the environmental analyses and 
other supporting documents for this action are available from <a href="https://www.regulations.gov/docket/NOAA-NMFS-2025-0045">https://www.regulations.gov/docket/NOAA-NMFS-2025-0045</a>, or from Sarah J. 
Malloy, Regional Administrator, NMFS Pacific Islands Regional Office 
(PIRO), 1845 Wasp Blvd., Bldg. 176, Honolulu, HI 96818.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David O'Brien, NMFS PIRO Sustainable 
Fisheries, 808-725-5038.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: NMFS and the Council manage U.S. commercial 
fishing for Western Pacific pelagic management unit species, including 
striped marlin, under the FEP and implementing Federal regulations.
    In addition, the WCPFC is the regional fisheries management 
organization that manages WCNPO striped marlin internationally. A 2023 
stock assessment for WCNPO striped marlin indicates that while the 
stock was experiencing overfishing, it was not overfished under 
domestic status determination criteria. This most recent stock 
assessment indicates improvement in the status of the stock from the 
previous 2019 stock assessment, when the stock was both experiencing 
overfishing and overfished. Negotiations at the WCPFC resulted in the 
adoption of a rebuilding plan for this stock that requires rebuilding 
to 20 percent of unfished biomass with at least 60 percent probability 
by 2034. In December 2024, the WCPFC adopted a new CMM for WCNPO 
striped marlin (CMM 2024-06) (available at <a href="https://cmm.wcpfc.int/measure/cmm-2024-06">https://cmm.wcpfc.int/measure/cmm-2024-06</a>) that includes a total allowable catch (TAC) of the 
stock across all WCPFC member nations as well as specific catch limits 
for five nations, including the United States. CMM 2024-06 indicates in 
paragraph 5 that the TAC of the stock annually from 2025-2027 is 2,400 
mt (5,291,000 lb). The WCPFC determined this TAC was necessary to 
achieve the requirements of the rebuilding plan for WCNPO striped 
marlin.
    The base U.S. catch limit specified in CMM 2024-06 is 228.4 mt 
(503,500 lb), or 9.5 percent of the TAC for the stock. The U.S. catch 
limit would apply to retained striped marlin caught by all vessels of 
the United States in the Pacific Ocean north of the Equator (0[deg] 
latitude) and west of 150[deg] W longitude. Consistent with CMM 2024-
06, the U.S. catch limit under the framework depends on three factors: 
a base catch limit for the United States set at 228.4 mt (503,500 lb); 
the availability of unused quota relative to the overall international 
catch limit for the stock 2 years prior; and any overages of the U.S. 
limit that occurred 2 years prior.
    Hawaii-based longline fisheries catch approximately 97 percent or 
more of the total U.S. striped marlin catch annually and report catch 
to NMFS on a daily basis. U.S. troll and handline fisheries account for 
the remaining catch and report catch on a monthly basis. Therefore, 
near-real-time catch monitoring by this sector is not possible. To 
ensure that the catch limit is not exceeded, the Council recommended 
and NMFS is implementing a retention limit of 97 percent of the catch 
limit, for any U.S. fishing vessel with a Hawaii longline limited entry 
permit issued under 50 CFR 665.801(b). This longline retention limit 
ensures that when troll and handline catches are determined after the 
season ends, the total U.S. catch of WCNPO striped marlin will not 
exceed the catch limit.
    Pursuant to this framework, NMFS will annually specify the WCNPO 
striped marlin limit and longline retention limit through a Federal 
Register notice. For 2026, the U.S. WCNPO striped marlin catch limit is 
393.4 mt (867,300 lb) and is comprised of the base limit of 228.4 mt 
(503,500 lb) and unused quota relative to the overall international 
catch limit for the stock 2 years prior, which CMM 2024-06 determined 
to be 165 mt (363,800 lb). The U.S. longline retention limit is 381.6 
mt (841,300 lb).
    If NMFS projects, based on vessel logbook, landing and other 
available information, that the retention limit will be reached, we 
will prohibit for the remainder of the year retention of striped marlin 
caught by U.S. longline vessels holding a Hawaii limited entry longline 
permit issued under 50 CFR 665.801(b) in the Pacific Ocean north of the 
Equator (0[deg] latitude) and west of 150[deg] W longitude. This 
retention prohibition will apply to striped marlin alive or dead when 
fishing gear is recovered. A retention prohibition would go into effect 
no earlier than 7 days after NMFS publishes a non-retention date notice 
in the Federal Register and continue until the end of the calendar 
year. The Regional Administrator will also update owners and operators 
of longline vessels affected by the retention prohibition using other 
means. You may find additional background information on this action in 
the preamble to the proposed rule.

Comments and Responses

    On May 1, 2026, NMFS published a proposed rule, Environmental 
Assessment (EA), and Regulatory Impact Review for public comment (91 FR 
23387). The comment period ended June 1, 2026. NMFS received three 
comments on the proposed rule; two from individuals and one jointly 
submitted by two non-governmental organizations (NGOs). NMFS did not 
receive any comments from fishery management agencies or from 
individuals who identified themselves as fishery participants. We 
summarize the comments and respond below.
    Comment 1: A commentor supported the proposed rule, with an 
interest in maintaining a sustainable striped marlin population to 
protect biodiversity, strengthen ecosystem resilience, and ensure 
resources for future generations.
    Response: For the reasons set out in the proposed rule (91 FR 
23387; May 1, 2026), we agree with the commentor.
    Comment 2: A commentor did not support the proposed rule and 
advocated for an end to fisheries for striped marlin and other highly 
migratory species based on animal welfare arguments.
    Response: NMFS is charged with natural resource management under 
applicable statutes and, for WCNPO striped marlin, international 
agreements. NMFS's role is to evaluate management recommendations from 
the Council relative to the National Standards (50 CFR 600 Subpart D) 
of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, international

[[Page 58384]]

requirements, and other applicable laws and implement those that are 
consistent with these requirements. Closing the fishery based solely on 
animal welfare concerns is inconsistent with the statutory objectives 
of sustainable fisheries management.
    Comment 3: Two NGOs jointly objected to the proposed rule and the 
analysis in the EA on several points and recommended NMFS: (1) include 
all retained catch and discarded catch in the TAC calculation and (2) 
fully analyze other alternatives that will reduce the U.S. catch per 
unit effort of striped marlin including (a) gear restrictions; (b) 
mandatory release of live striped marlin; (c) a minimum size limit; (d) 
area-based management; (e) protection of spawning and nursery grounds; 
and (f) maintaining the closure of the Papah[amacr]naumoku[amacr]kea 
marine national monument (PMNM) to longline fishing.
    In addition, the commenters further recommended NMFS consider 
positive economic impacts any additional mitigation measures would have 
on small boat fishermen and recommended NMFS adopt Alternative 4 (no 
retention of WCNPO striped marlin) if the agency is unable to 
incorporate changes to the proposed rule that would reduce catch per 
unit effort of the stock in U.S. fisheries.
    Response: CMM 2024-06 requires the United States to implement a 
catch limit for WCNPO striped marlin, which the WCPFC determined was 
necessary to achieve the requirements of the rebuilding plan for WCNPO 
striped marlin. This final rule implements a framework for specifying 
the U.S. catch limit for WCNPO striped marlin and ensures that the 
catch of WCNPO striped marlin by the United States will not exceed the 
international limit for the United States established by the WCPFC in 
CMM 2024-06.
    Regarding recommendation 1 to include all retained catch and 
discarded catch in the TAC calculation, the calculations and catch 
information presented in the EA are based on the best scientific 
information available. Because there has not been a prohibition on 
retention of WCNPO striped marlin in the past, we assume that there 
have been no significant discards of striped marlin in this fishery due 
to their economic value. Internationally, catch reports provided to and 
available from the WCPFC have consisted of only retained catch and past 
assessments have been based on these retained-catch estimates. CMM 
2024-06 specifically requires all WCPFC member countries, including the 
United States, to provide ``catch, effort, and estimates of total live 
and dead discards . . . as soon as possible, but no later than 2027'' 
(paragraph 13). The provision of discard estimates is a new 
requirement, and differs from the reporting requirements for any other 
targeted highly migratory species managed through the WCPFC. CMM 2024-
06 specifically differentiates between catch and estimates of discards 
in paragraph 13 and does not mention discards in paragraphs related to 
overall or country specific catch limits (paragraphs 5 & 6). Consistent 
with WCPFC management for other species, and plain reading of CMM 2024-
06, catch limits apply to retained catch, and not to the combination of 
catch and discards. Our analysis in the EA and application of only 
retained catch to catch and retention limits in this rule are 
consistent with CMM 2024-06, and thus we did not accept the actions 
recommended in the comment. Doing so would be inconsistent with the CMM 
and would exceed its requirements.
    Regarding recommendation 2a to fully analyze alternatives that will 
reduce the U.S. catch per unit effort of striped marlin, as described 
in the EA and noted in the comment, we considered several alternatives. 
We did not analyze them in detail because they did not meet the purpose 
and need for the action, are inconsistent with CMM 2024-06, and would 
exceed its requirements. The alternatives raised by the comment 
specifically included alternatives involving gear modification such as 
removal of the shallowest hooks as evaluated by Bigelow and Mourato 
(2012; as cited in the comment). As noted by Bigelow and Mourato, 
although removal of the shallowest hooks resulted in reduced catch per 
unit effort (CPUE) for striped marlin, it also resulted in 
``operational difficulties as more mainline will need to be deployed, 
thus increasing both the setting and retrieval times'' (Bigelow and 
Mourato 2012). Increases in both setting and retrieval times would have 
negative economic impacts to the longline fleet, counter to the purpose 
and need for the action. Bigelow and Mourato also examined the use of 
circle hooks and found a 42 percent reduction in striped marlin CPUE. 
This gear modification was previously adopted in the Hawaii longline 
fisheries (50 CFR 665.813(f) and 50 CFR 229.37(c)). For these reasons, 
we did not modify the alternatives considered in the analysis 
associated with this final rule.
    Regarding recommendation 2b on mandatory release of live striped 
marlin, the analysis in the EA specifically considered mandatory 
release of live striped marlin. As described in the EA and illustrated 
in Figure 4 of the EA, an analysis by Brodziak (2020) found that given 
48 percent of striped marlin are alive at the vessel and, assuming post 
release survival was 100 percent, even if live-release was universally 
adopted across all international fleets catching this stock, it would 
not achieve stock rebuilding goals. Therefore, adopting live releases 
in U.S. fisheries alone would not be sufficient to achieve stock 
rebuilding goals and would exceed the requirements of CMM 2024-06. 
Requiring live releases in U.S. fisheries without concurrent 
requirements for other international fleets would result in U.S. 
fishermen assuming a disproportionate burden of the costs associated 
with international conservation efforts and be contrary to the purpose 
and need for the action given economic impacts to U.S. fisheries. Given 
recent catches of striped marlin and the catch and longline retention 
limits for U.S. fisheries under the framework finalized with this rule, 
it is likely that we will reach the longline retention limit and 
retention will be prohibited in the future. For these reasons, NMFS did 
not adopt this recommendation in this final rule.
    Regarding recommendation 2c on minimum size limits, the EA did not 
explicitly consider a minimum size limit for U.S. fisheries, and such 
limits have not previously been considered for commercial fisheries on 
this WCNPO stock. The impact of a minimum size limit on the dynamics of 
the WCNPO striped marlin stock and economics of the fishery are not 
obvious and would require considerable analysis. In addition, such a 
measure would likely introduce disproportionate burdens on U.S. 
fishermen that would not be equally applied to other international 
fleets.
    Like recommendation 2b on mandatory release of live striped marlin 
(above), consideration of a minimum size limit measure does not meet 
the purpose and need for the action and is inconsistent with and would 
exceed the requirements of CMM 2024-06. For all the reasons noted 
above, NMFS did not adopt this recommendation in this final rule.
    Regarding recommendation 2d on area-based management, NMFS is 
unaware of published work that suggests that longline catch rates of 
striped marlin in PMNM were higher than other locations open to 
fishing, and commercial fishing has been prohibited within the current 
PMNM boundary since 2011 (50 CFR 404.10). Bigelow and Mourato (2012) 
specifically analyzed catch rates to determine if there were catch 
hotspots for striped marlin. If they existed, striped marlin

[[Page 58385]]

catch rate hotspots could be considered as candidates for spatial 
management as a method of reducing catch. Bigelow and Mourato concluded 
that across years ``there were no hot-spots identified that were 
spatially persistent in the area fished by the Hawaii-based tuna 
fishery'' (Bigelow and Mourato 2012). Like recommendations 2b and 2c, 
consideration of area-based management does not meet the purpose and 
need for the action and is inconsistent with and would exceed the 
requirements of CMM 2024-06. For all the reason noted above, NMFS did 
not adopt this recommendation in this final rule.
    Regarding recommendation 2e protection of spawning and nursery 
grounds, although there is rare evidence of WCNPO striped marlin 
spawning in waters around Hawaii, scientific consensus is that the 
primary spawning grounds for this stock are in the far western Pacific 
outside the jurisdiction of the United States. As summarized by 
Martinez et al. (2025; as cited in the comment), ``the CNP [central 
north Pacific Ocean] likely serves as a dynamic juvenile nursery and 
feeding ground for sub-adult Striped Marlin, characterized by juvenile-
sized fish and relatively limited spawning activity compared to other 
regions of the Pacific'' (Martinez et al. 2025). Combined with a lack 
of catch hotspots as noted in our response for recommendation 2d, 
above, this relatively low spawning activity in the waters around 
Hawaii argues against specific time or area-based management measures 
for WCNPO striped marlin to protect spawning or rearing fish. Like 
recommendations 2b, 2c, and 2d, consideration of spawning ground 
protection does not meet the purpose and need for the action, and is 
inconsistent with and would exceed the requirements of CMM 2024-06. For 
all the reasons noted above, NMFS did not adopt this recommendation in 
this final rule.
    Regarding recommendation 2f to maintain the closure of the PMNM, 
this final rule does not modify regulations affecting fishing access in 
the PMNM.
    Regarding the potential positive economic impacts these additional 
mitigation measures would have on small boat fishermen, NMFS responds 
as follows. Although we appreciate that studies of some fish species, 
including striped marlin, have shown CPUE in recreational fisheries is 
correlated with angler participation, trip frequency, and regional 
expenditures, these findings are the result of extensive directed 
socio-economic research. NMFS currently has not conducted, and is not 
aware of, specific socio-economic research evaluating how striped 
marlin CPUE in the Hawaii longline fishery affects the economic 
performance of non-commercial fisheries in Hawaii. Although dated, the 
value of the charter fishery in Hawaii was estimated at close to $50 
million dollars in gross sales and it supported nearly 900 jobs 
statewide in 2011, but current values or understanding of the effect of 
striped marlin CPUE on fishery values is unclear. In the absence of 
existing Hawaii-specific economic information of this type, NMFS is 
unable to provide a rigorous analysis of the potential economic impacts 
of variable striped marlin CPUE on non-commercial or charter fisheries 
associated with this action. We did not implement this recommendation, 
as there are no data to understand what, if any, benefits would accrue 
to non-commercial or charter fisheries with the recommended additional 
measures to reduce CPUE; which all exceed the requirements of CMM 2024-
06.
    NMFS declines to adopt the commenters' recommendation to select 
Alternative 4 (no retention of WCNPO striped marlin) as it fails to 
meet the purpose and need for the action, is inconsistent with and 
would exceed the requirements of the CMM, and would maximize the 
disproportionate burden of costs for international conservation efforts 
of this stock to U.S. fishermen.
    Ultimately, the United States is obligated under international 
agreements to have regulations in place that implement the requirements 
of WCPFC CMM 2024-06. Based on catches to date in 2026, it is likely 
that the retention limit will be reached before the end of the year. 
Without this rule in place and effective, we will be unable to prohibit 
retention and prevent the U.S. catch limit under CMM 2024-06 from being 
exceeded.

Changes From the Proposed Rule

    The final rule changes the organization of 50 CFR 665.813(l) from 
the proposed rule to improve readability with minor changes to the 
proposed rule text. We modified the text in paragraph (l)(2) ``is based 
on'' to ``is composed of'' to improve readability. We removed the text 
``, for which there are no in-season catch estimates,'' from paragraph 
(l)(3) because there are in-season estimates for troll and handline 
fisheries, but the data are not available to support in-season 
management. This clarification would not affect the rule's purpose of 
avoiding exceedance of the catch limit. We also added paragraph titles 
to key rule paragraphs to further clarify interpretation of the 
regulatory text.

Classification

    Pursuant to section 304(b)(3) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, the NMFS 
Assistant Administrator has determined that this final rule is 
consistent with the FEP, other provisions of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, 
and other applicable law.
    This final rule has been determined to be not significant for 
purposes of Executive Order 12866.
    This final rule is exempt from the requirements of Executive Order 
14192 because it is a routine fishing action.
    A Tribal summary impact statement under section (5)(b)(2)(B) and 
(c)(2) of E.O. 13175 was not required for this final rule because this 
action does not impose substantial direct compliance costs on Indian 
Tribal Governments and this action does not preempt Tribal law. A 
Tribal summary impact statement is not required and has not been 
prepared.
    The Senior Lead Counsel for Regulation of the Department of 
Commerce certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration during the proposed rule stage that this action 
would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of 
small entities. The factual basis for the certification was published 
in the proposed rule and is not repeated here. No comments were 
received regarding this certification. As a result, a final regulatory 
flexibility analysis was not required and none was prepared.
    This final rule contains no information collection requirements 
under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.

List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 665

    Fisheries, Fishing, Hawaii, Longline, Limited access permit, 
Pacific Islands, Western Pacific.

    Dated: September 10, 2026.
Samuel D. Rauch III,
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Programs, National Marine 
Fisheries Service.

    For the reasons set out in the preamble, NMFS amends 50 CFR part 
665 as follows:

PART 665--FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC

0
1. The authority citation for part 665 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.


0
2. Amend Sec.  665.800 by adding, in alphabetical order, the definition 
of ``Non-retention date'' to read as follows:


Sec.  665.800  Definitions.

* * * * *

[[Page 58386]]

    Non-retention date means the date upon which the Regional 
Administrator projects that a retention limit will be met, and is the 
date on which retention of a species identified under Sec.  665.813 is 
prohibited as specified under Sec.  665.802, until the end of the 
fishing year.
* * * * *

0
3. Amend Sec.  665.802 by adding paragraph (uu) to read as follows:


Sec.  665.802  Prohibitions.

* * * * *
    (uu) Fail to immediately release any striped marlin captured on or 
after the non-retention date in the Pacific Ocean north of the Equator 
(0[deg] latitude) and west of 150[deg] W longitude by a vessel 
registered for use under a longline permit issued under Sec.  
665.801(b), in violation of Sec.  665.813(l).
* * * * *

0
4. Amend Sec.  665.813 by adding paragraph (l) to read as follows:


Sec.  665.813  Western Pacific longline fishing restrictions.

* * * * *
    (l) Striped marlin catch and longline retention limits--(1) 
Specification. The Regional Administrator shall by notice in the 
Federal Register specify a U.S. catch limit and longline retention 
limit for striped marlin for vessels registered for use under a 
longline permit issued under Sec.  665.801(b) fishing in the Pacific 
Ocean north of the Equator (0[deg] latitude) and west of 150[deg] W 
longitude.
    (2) Catch limit. The U.S. catch limit will be consistent with the 
international limit for the United States set by the Western and 
Central Pacific Fisheries Commission. The international limit is 
composed of a base limit for the United States, plus available underage 
across all nations' catch of the stock 2 years prior, minus any overage 
of the U.S. catch limit 2 years prior.
    (3) Longline retention limit. The longline retention limit will be 
97 percent of the U.S. catch limit. Catches in troll and handline 
fisheries are less than 3 percent of the total U.S. catch of striped 
marlin on average each year. Setting the longline retention limit at 97 
percent ensures that when the catches from these other fisheries are 
added post-season, the total U.S. catch limit is not exceeded.
    (4) Retention Prohibition. NMFS will monitor striped marlin 
landings with respect to the limits established under paragraphs (l)(2) 
and (3) of this section using longline landings, data submitted in 
logbooks, and other available information.
    (i) When the longline retention limit is projected to be reached 
based on analyses of available information, the Regional Administrator 
shall provide notice in the Federal Register. This notice will include 
an advisement of a non-retention date beginning at a specified date, 
which is not earlier than 7 days after the date of filing the non-
retention date notice for public inspection with the Office of the 
Federal Register.
    (ii) Once the non-retention date is noticed in the Federal Register 
pursuant to paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section, a fishing vessel 
permitted under a Hawaii longline limited access permit issued under 
Sec.  665.801(b) may not be used to retain on board, transship, or land 
striped marlin captured by longline gear in the Pacific Ocean north of 
0[deg] latitude and west of 150[deg] W longitude from the non-retention 
date through December 31 of that calendar year.
    (iii) Exception for striped marlin retained prior to the non-
retention date. Any striped marlin captured by longline gear in the 
Pacific Ocean north of 0[deg] latitude and west of 150[deg] W longitude 
already on board a fishing vessel registered for use with a Hawaii 
longline limited access permit issued under Sec.  665.801(b) before the 
non-retention date noticed pursuant to paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this 
section may be retained on board, transshipped, and/or landed, to the 
extent authorized by applicable laws and regulations, provided that the 
striped marlin is landed within 14 days after the effective non-
retention date.
    (iv) All striped marlin captured by longline gear in the Pacific 
Ocean north of 0[deg] latitude and west of 150[deg] W longitude on or 
after the non-retention date noticed in the Federal Register pursuant 
to paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section shall be immediately released.

[FR Doc. 2026-18849 Filed 9-14-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3510-22-P


</pre></body>
</html>