<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 181 (Monday, September 21, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 181 (Monday, September 21, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 59792-59794]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-19252]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES


Request for Information on Electromagnetic Fields (EMFs), 
Radiofrequency (RF) Radiation, and Wireless Radiation Exposure

AGENCY: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS or the 
Department).

ACTION: Notice of Request for Information (RFI) on electromagnetic 
field (EMF) exposure and human health.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: Consistent with the Department of Health and Human Services' 
emphasis on evaluating environmental factors that may affect human 
health, particularly among children and other potentially vulnerable 
populations, HHS seeks information on electromagnetic field (EMF) 
emissions and exposure, particularly RF and wireless, and human health. 
RF radiation and other forms of non-ionizing electromagnetic (EMF) 
exposure, will hereafter be referred to as ``RF/EMF.'' Responses will 
help identify and assess the current state of the scientific evidence 
on RF/EMF exposures and health outcomes, compare existing domestic and 
international safety standards and regulatory approaches, identify 
research gaps and priority areas for future study, and inform 
practical, evidence-based recommendations for policymakers, public 
health stakeholders, families, schools, and communities. HHS welcomes 
input from researchers, clinicians, public health professionals, 
industry, standards organizations, educators, advocacy groups, and 
members of the public to clearly distinguish established evidence from 
emerging findings and areas of uncertainty, and supports transparent, 
science-informed decision-making.

DATES: Comments on this notice must be received no later than October 
21, 2026.

ADDRESSES: RFI Docket: You may examine the RFI docket at 
<a href="http://regulations.gov">regulations.gov</a> under HHS-OASH-2026-0397. The docket contains this RFI 
and all comments received to date. To submit a response, click the 
``Comment'' button inside Docket: HHS-OASH-2026-0397and follow all 
instructions.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Victoria Marshall, Office of the 
Assistant Secretary for Health, <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#a4ebe5f7ec89f6e2ede4ccccd78ac3cbd2"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="a9e6e8fae184fbefe0e9c1c1da87cec6df">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Electromagnetic fields (EMFs) are energy 
fields produced by moving electrically charged particles and electrical 
currents. EMFs occur across a broad range of frequencies, including low 
radiofrequency (RF) associated with power systems and household 
appliances, as well as higher RF and microwave exposures associated 
with wireless communication technologies. HHS is conducting this 
request for information under 21 CFR subpart J.
    Public concern about potential health effects from RF/EMF exposure 
has increased, particularly in relation to children, schools, and long-
term cumulative exposure. At the same time, scientific literature is 
extensive, technically complex, and not always easy for policymakers or 
public health stakeholders to interpret. Exposure standards and 
regulatory approaches also vary across jurisdictions. HHS is interested 
in clear, balanced, and evidence-informed information about RF/EMF 
exposure that can support decision-making, identify research 
priorities, and inform practical strategies to reduce unnecessary 
exposure where appropriate.

Request for Information

    For this RFI, HHS is seeking input from the public, including 
individuals, families, caregivers, healthcare professionals, public 
health practitioners, researchers, organizations, equipment or product 
manufacturers, service or infrastructure providers, and other 
interested stakeholders that have knowledge of or experience with RF/
EMF emission and exposure. Please identify whether your response is 
based on peer-reviewed research, government reports, industry data, 
clinical observations, or other sources. If you rely on existing 
exposure guidelines, regulatory frameworks, or scientific assessments, 
please identify the specific framework(s) and explain how they inform 
your response. Respondents are encouraged to include supporting facts, 
research, datasets, technical reports, and other evidence in their 
comments, including citations to the published materials referenced, 
and active hyperlinks, where available.

Instructions

    1. Responses submitted at <a href="http://regulations.gov/deregulation">regulations.gov/deregulation</a> should 
follow the format provided there. You may respond to one or more of the 
questions listed below and please include question numbers provided in 
the response. Each responding entity (person or organization) should 
submit only one response. Unless submitted anonymously, responses 
should include the name(s) of the person(s) or organization(s) 
submitting the comment. If a comment is submitted on behalf of an 
organization, the individual respondent's role in the organization may 
also be provided. In your response, please describe which 
perspective(s) your comments represent: individual consumer, patient, 
family member, or caregiver; healthcare professional; equipment or 
product manufacturer; service or infrastructure provider; business; 
industry group; government; research entity; or another type of 
organization or perspective.
    This RFI is voluntary, and responses may be submitted anonymously. 
Please do not submit proprietary, classified, confidential, or 
sensitive information, to include personally identifiable (PII) or 
personal health information (PHI), in response to this RFI.
    This RFI should not be construed as a policy, solicitation for 
applications, or as an obligation on the part of the government to 
provide support for any

[[Page 59793]]

ideas in response to it. Comments submitted will become public on 
<a href="http://regulations.gov">regulations.gov</a>. The information provided will be analyzed and may 
appear in anonymized reports, on HHS websites, or otherwise released 
publicly. Respondents are advised that the government is not obligated 
to acknowledge receipt of submissions. Those submitting responses are 
solely responsible for all expenses associated with response 
preparation. HHS will use the information submitted in response to this 
RFI at its discretion and will not comment on any respondent's 
submission. However, responses to this RFI may be reflected in future 
solicitation(s) or policies.

Questions

Public Experiences and Reported Potential Adverse Health Effects

    2. In your response, please describe which perspective(s) your 
comments represent: individual consumer, patient, family member, or 
caregiver; healthcare professional; worker with occupational exposure; 
equipment or product manufacturer; service or infrastructure provider; 
business; industry group; government; research entity; or another type 
of organization or perspective.
    3. We invite individuals, families, caregivers, healthcare 
professionals, and organizations to share experiences regarding 
potential adverse health effects they believe may be associated with 
exposure to RF/EMFs. Respondents are encouraged to provide as much 
detail as they are comfortable sharing, recognizing that responses to 
this RFI will be public and therefore should not include PII or PHI. 
Examples of information that may be helpful to include are the 
following:
    a. The type(s) of wireless technology or RF/EMF source(s) involved 
(e.g., mobile phones, Wi-Fi, smart meters, wireless infrastructure, 
wearable devices, occupational equipment).
    b. The nature, duration, frequency, and approximate timing of the 
reported exposure(s).
    c. The potential adverse health effects experienced.
    d. When potential adverse health effects first appeared relative to 
when exposure began and whether any changes in exposure coincided with 
potential adverse health effects.
    e. Whether medical evaluation or treatment was sought, including 
any diagnoses received (if the respondent chooses to share them).
    f. Whether steps to reduce or eliminate exposure were taken and, if 
so, whether any subsequent changes in potential adverse health effects 
were observed.
    g. Any supporting documentation, including scientific reports, 
exposure measurements, or other relevant information.
    4. We invite healthcare professionals, researchers, and public 
health practitioners to describe observations from clinical practice, 
occupational settings, or research that may help identify patterns, if 
any, of reported potential adverse health effects associated with RF/
EMF radiation and exposure. In describing these observations, please 
include where available:
    h. The types of potential adverse health effects reported.
    i. Onset of potential adverse health effects.
    j. Characteristics of the individuals or populations involved, 
excluding any identifying information such as PII or PHI.
    k. Any observed exposure patterns.
    l. What standardized methods were used to assess exposure or 
potential adverse health effects, if any were used.
    m. Recommendations for future research or surveillance.

Exposure Standards and Risk Assessment

    5. What existing national and international exposure standards, 
guidelines, or regulatory frameworks should federal health agencies 
consider when evaluating the potential adverse health effects of human 
exposure to RF/EMF?
    n. What scientific, technical, or regulatory changes by federal 
health agencies, if any, would improve the assessment, disclosure, and 
regulation of wireless radiation exposure?
    o. Is additional research needed to develop, test, and evaluate the 
effectiveness of procedures and techniques for minimizing exposure to 
electronic product radiation? Where are the largest gaps, if any, in 
knowledge? What research is needed to appropriately evaluate current or 
future national and international exposure standards, guidelines, or 
regulatory frameworks.
    p. How, if at all, should a classification system account for 
exposure-related characteristics, including operating frequency, power 
density, specific absorption rate (SAR), electric- and magnetic-field 
strength, modulation and pulse characteristics, duty cycle, 
beamforming, simultaneous exposure to multiple frequencies, duration of 
exposure, distance from the source, proximity to the body, and 
cumulative exposure over time?
    6. What scientific evidence exists about potential adverse health 
effects caused by current exposure limits?

Measuring Human Exposure and Public Health Surveillance

    7. What scientific methods are currently available for accurately 
characterizing individual and population-level RF radiation exposure?
    8. What, if any, improvements in exposure assessment methodologies 
are needed to better evaluate real-world exposure conditions?
    9. What, if any, technical and exposure-related information should 
be disclosed to consumers, residents, workers, schools, healthcare 
providers, and local governments?
    10. What data sources or surveillance systems currently exist to 
monitor potential adverse health effects associated with RF radiation 
exposure? Should additional data sources or surveillance systems be 
developed? Please discuss the benefits and challenges of the following 
data sources and surveillance systems, as relevant:
    a. disease registries.
    b. occupational monitoring.
    c. environmental monitoring.
    d. longitudinal cohort studies.
    e. biomonitoring.
    f. adverse event reporting.
    g. disease or illness clusters.
    h. Other.
    11. Should exposure assessment or risk evaluation differ for 
sensitive populations such as those noted below? Please explain.
    a. children.
    b. pregnant women.
    c. older adults.
    d. individuals with implanted medical devices.
    e. workers with elevated occupational exposure.
    f. individuals with preexisting medical conditions.
    g. Other populations that may uniquely experience potential adverse 
health effects in response to RF radiation.

Existing Evidence

    12. What scientific evidence exists regarding potential adverse 
health effects associated with RF radiation exposure at levels below 
current federal exposure limits?
    13. According to scientific evidence, how do the technologies below 
affect cumulative exposure patterns?
    a. 5G.
    b. 6G.
    c. Wi-Fi.
    d. Satellite-based communications.
    e. Internet of Things (IoT).
    f. Wearable technologies.

[[Page 59794]]

    g. Smart homes/appliances.
    h. Smart cities.
    i. Autonomous vehicles.
    j. Wireless medical devices.
    k. Communication enabled smart meters.
    14. What scientific evidence exists regarding potential adverse 
environmental effects associated with RF radiation?
    15. What types of scientific evidence should be considered when 
evaluating RF exposure associated with wireless infrastructure? Please 
comment on:
    a. proximity to homes, schools, childcare facilities, healthcare 
facilities, and/or workplaces.
    b. cumulative neighborhood exposure.
    c. antenna density.
    d. small-cell deployment.
    e. livestock.

Federal Research Priorities

    16. What are the highest priority research gaps regarding EMF and 
RF radiation and public health that the federal health agencies should 
address?
    17. How can federal health agencies improve coordination of EMF and 
RF radiation research? Please comment on potential roles for federal 
health agencies including, but not limited to:
    a. HHS Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
    b. HHS National Institutes of Health (NIH).
    c. HHS Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Additional Information

    18. Please identify any additional scientific evidence, technical 
information, data, or recommendations that federal health agencies 
should consider when evaluating potential adverse health effects 
associated with RF/EMF radiation exposure.

Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.,
Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services.
[FR Doc. 2026-19252 Filed 9-17-26; 12:30 pm]
BILLING CODE 4164-01-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>