<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 121 (Thursday, June 25, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 121 (Thursday, June 25, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 38449-38450]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-12791]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

Indian Health Service


Notice of Proposed Purchased/Referred Care Delivery Area 
Redesignation for the Kewa Pueblo

AGENCY: Indian Health Service, HHS.

ACTION: Notice.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: This Notice advises the public that the Indian Health Service 
(IHS) proposes to expand the geographic boundaries of the Purchased/
Referred Care Delivery Area (PRCDA) for the Kewa Pueblo (``Kewa 
Pueblo'' or ``Tribe'') to include the New Mexico county of Bernalillo. 
The current PRCDA for the Kewa Pueblo includes the New Mexico counties 
of Sandoval and Santa Fe. The Kewa Pueblo's Tribal members who reside 
outside of the PRCDA are eligible for direct care services; however, 
they are not eligible for Purchased/Referred Care (PRC) services. The 
sole purpose of this expansion would be to authorize additional Kewa 
Pueblo Tribal members and beneficiaries to receive PRC services.

DATES: Comments must be submitted by July 27, 2026.

ADDRESSES: Because of staff and resource limitations, we cannot accept 
comments by facsimile (FAX) transmission. You may submit comments in 
one of four ways (please choose only one of the ways listed):
    1. Electronically. You may submit electronic comments on this 
regulation to <a href="http://www.regulations.gov">http://www.regulations.gov</a>. Follow the ``Submit a 
Comment'' instructions.
    2. By regular mail. You may submit written comments by mail to the 
following address ONLY: Carl Mitchell, Director, Division of Regulatory 
and Policy Coordination, Indian Health Service, 5600 Fishers Lane, Mail 
Stop: 06SWH03, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Please allow sufficient time 
for mailed comments to be received before the close of the comment 
period.
    3. By express or overnight mail. You may send written comments to 
the above address.
    4. By hand or courier. If you prefer, you may deliver (by hand or 
courier) your written comments before the close of the comment period 
to the address above.
    If you intend to deliver your comments to the Rockville address, 
please call telephone number (301) 651-0489 in advance to schedule your 
arrival with a staff member.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Inspection of Public Comments: All comments 
received before the close of the comment period are available for 
viewing by the public, including any personally identifiable or 
confidential business information that is included in a comment.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: CDR Tracy Sanchez, Acting Director, 
Office of Resource Access and Partnerships, Indian Health Service, 5600 
Fishers Lane, Mail Stop 06SEH03, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Telephone 
(301) 443-0969 (This is not a toll-free number).
    Background: The IHS provides services under regulations in effect 
as of September 15, 1987, and republished at 42 CFR part 136, subparts 
A-C. Subpart C defines a Contract Health Service Delivery Area (CHSDA), 
now referred to as a PRCDA, as the geographic area within which PRC 
will be made available by the IHS to members of an identified Indian 
community who reside in the PRCDA. Residence within a PRCDA by a person 
who is within the scope of the Indian health program, as set forth in 
42 CFR 136.12, creates no legal entitlement to PRC services but only 
potential eligibility for services. Services needed, but not available 
at an IHS/Tribal facility, are provided under the PRC program depending 
on the availability of funds, the relative medical priority of the 
services to be provided, and the actual availability and accessibility 
of alternate resources in accordance with the regulations.
    The regulations at 42 CFR part 136, subpart C provide that, unless 
otherwise designated, a PRCDA shall consist of a county which includes 
all or part of a reservation and any county or counties which have a 
common boundary with the reservation. 42 CFR 136.22(a)(6). The 
regulations also provide that after consultation with the Tribal 
governing body or bodies on those reservations included within the 
PRCDA, the Secretary may, from time to time, redesignate areas within 
the United States for inclusion in or exclusion from a PRCDA. 42 CFR 
136.22(b). The regulations require that certain criteria be considered 
before any redesignation is made. The criteria are as follows:
    (1) The number of Indians residing in the area proposed to be so 
included or excluded;
    (2) Whether the tribal governing body has determined that Indians 
residing in the area near the reservation are socially and economically 
affiliated with the tribe;
    (3) The geographic proximity to the reservation of the area whose 
inclusion or exclusion is being considered; and
    (4) The level of funding that would be available for the provision 
of PRC.

[[Page 38450]]

    Additionally, the regulations require that any redesignation of a 
PRCDA be made in accordance with the procedures of the Administrative 
Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553). 42 CFR 136.22(c). In compliance with this 
requirement, the IHS is publishing this Notice and requesting public 
comments.
    The Kewa Pueblo reservation is located in Sandoval and Santa Fe 
counties of New Mexico. The Kewa Pueblo operates their PRC program 
under an Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
agreement with the IHS. The Kewa Pueblo's PRCDA is currently referred 
to as ``Kewa Pueblo, New Mexico (previously listed as the Pueblo of 
Santo Domingo)'' on the PRCDA List. The Tribe has requested that the 
IHS expand its PRCDA to include Bernalillo County, New Mexico. The 
requested PRCDA redesignation would share Bernalillo County with the 
PRCDA of the Canoncito Band of Navajos To'hajiilee Chapter, Pueblo of 
Isleta, Pueblo of Laguna, and Pueblo of Sandia of New Mexico. The 
Albuquerque Area held Tribal Consultation with the Tribes, during which 
they did not raise any objections to the expansion of the Kewa Pueblo's 
PRCDA to include Bernalillo County.
    Under 42 CFR 136.23, those otherwise eligible Indians who do not 
reside on a reservation, but reside within a PRCDA, must be either 
members of the Tribe or other IHS beneficiaries who maintain close 
economic and social ties with the Tribe. In this case, applying the 
aforementioned PRCDA redesignation criteria required by operative 
regulations codified at 42 CFR part 136, subpart C, the following 
findings are made:
    1. By expanding the PRCDA to include Bernalillo County, New Mexico, 
the Kewa Pueblo estimates that the Tribe's PRC eligible population 
would increase by an estimated 200 Tribal members.
    2. As part of their expansion request, the Kewa Pueblo submitted a 
resolution from the Tribe's governing body. The resolution indicates 
that the requested expansion is intended to serve their members living 
in Bernalillo County, New Mexico. During Tribal Consultation, the Kewa 
Pueblo verified that those members are socially and economically 
affiliated with the Tribe.
    3. Bernalillo County is approximately 30 miles from the Tribe's 
reservation. The requested expansion would form a contiguous area with 
the existing PRCDA. Tribal members of the Kewa Pueblo reside in the 
county proposed for inclusion in the expanded PRCDA. For these reasons, 
the IHS has determined the additional county proposed for inclusion 
herein to be geographically proximate, meaning ``on or near,'' to the 
Tribe's reservation.
    4. Through the Kewa Pueblo's request to expand its PRCDA, the Tribe 
has indicated that the PRC program can continue providing the same 
level of care to the PRC eligible population if the PRCDA is expanded 
as proposed, without requiring additional funding from the IHS or 
reduction of the current medical priority level.
    Accordingly, the IHS proposes to expand the PRCDA of the Kewa 
Pueblo to include the county of Bernalillo in the state of New Mexico.
    This Notice does not contain reporting or recordkeeping 
requirements subject to prior approval by the Office of Management and 
Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.

Clayton W. Fulton,
Chief of Staff (Delegated Authority of the IHS Director). Indian Health 
Service.
[FR Doc. 2026-12791 Filed 6-24-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4166-14-P


</pre></body>
</html>