<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 156 (Friday, August 14, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 156 (Friday, August 14, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 52479-52484]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-16687]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT

5 CFR Parts 532 and 550

[Docket ID: OPM-2026-0199]
RIN 3206-AO76


Differential Pay for Prescribed Wildland Fire Activities

AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management is issuing a final rule to 
add prescribed (planned) wildland fire duties as covered activities 
triggering payment of Hazardous Duty Pay (HDP) for General Schedule 
(GS) employees and Environmental Differential Pay (EDP) for Federal 
Wage System (FWS) employees. The final rule authorizes a 25 percent 
differential for GS and FWS employees participating as a member of a 
firefighting crew engaged in activities on the fireline directly 
involving the implementation and control of prescribed wildland fires.

DATES: 
    Effective date: This regulation is effective September 14, 2026.
    Applicability date: This change applies on the first day of the 
first pay period beginning on or after September 14, 2026.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ana Paunoiu, by telephone at (202) 
606-2858 or by email at <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#8efeeff7fee1e2e7edf7cee1fee3a0e9e1f8"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="0e7e6f777e6162676d774e617e6320696178">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. Digest of Public Comments

    On April 14, 2026, OPM issued a proposed rule (91 FR 19081) to add 
prescribed wildland fire activities as new HDP and EDP categories under 
5 CFR parts 550 and 532. The proposed rule had a 60-day comment period 
ending June 15, 2026. OPM received 92 comments from Federal employees, 
one labor organization, one public sector organization, and one private 
sector organization. Public comments, with a few exceptions, strongly 
supported OPM's proposal to authorize a 25 percent differential for GS 
employees, including General Schedule Wildland Firefighters (GW pay 
plan), and FWS employees participating on a firefighting crew engaged 
in activities on the fireline directly involving the implementation and 
control of prescribed wildland fires.
    Commenters primarily addressed the following issues: coverage of 
employees paid under pay plan ``GW'' and employees in the 0456 Wildland 
Fire Management occupational series; whether prescribed fire duties 
warrant the same 25 percent differential provided for wildfire fireline 
duties; the exclusion of pre-ignition preparation activities; legal 
authority and concerns about double compensation; comparisons to other 
hazardous Forest Service duties; potential cost and operational 
incentives; and requests to expand coverage to smokejumper proficiency 
or training jumps and to aviation or air tanker base personnel.
    After considering the comments, OPM is adopting the proposed 
regulatory text and 25 percent differential without change. The 
responses to the comments in Section III. provide clarifications on the 
differential coverage, payment, and other provisions.

II. Background

    HDP is a pay differential authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5545(d) and 5 CFR 
part 550, subpart I, for GS employees performing duties approved by OPM 
in Appendix A to subpart I that involve unusual physical hardship or 
hazard. EDP is a pay differential authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4) and 
5 CFR 532.511 for FWS employees exposed to working conditions or 
hazards that fall within one of the categories approved by OPM in 
Appendix A of 5 CFR part 532, subpart E. This final rule establishes 
new HDP and EDP categories at a 25 percent rate for Federal employees 
performing prescribed (planned) wildland fire activities. Existing HDP 
and EDP provisions already provide a 25 percent differential for 
qualifying wildfire fireline work (i.e., participating as a member of a 
crew fighting forest and range fires), but they do not cover prescribed 
fires. United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service 
and the Department of the Interior (DOI) requested that OPM add 
prescribed wildland fire activities as covered categories because 
employees engaged in those operations are exposed to many of the same 
physical, chemical, and biological hazards encountered on wildfire 
firelines.
    As in the proposed rule, the final rule limits differential 
coverage to employees participating as a member of a firefighting crew 
engaged in activities on the fireline directly involving the 
implementation and control of a prescribed wildland fire. The rule does

[[Page 52480]]

not extend the differential to pre-ignition preparation activities. OPM 
retains this limitation because the hazards justifying coverage are 
associated with the active fire environment and its immediate aftermath 
on the fireline, not preparatory work performed before a fire has been 
ignited.
    For FWS employees, OPM presented the proposal to add an EDP 
category for prescribed wildland fire activities to the Federal 
Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee at its July 18, 2024, meeting, and 
the Committee recommended the change by consensus. For GS employees, 
the final rule also adds 5 CFR 550.904(f) to clarify that the 
classification-based exclusion on HDP under 5 U.S.C. 5545(d)(1) and 5 
CFR 550.904(a)-(b) does not apply to employees in occupational series 
covering positions whose primary duties involve the prevention, 
control, suppression, or management of wildland fire, consistent with 
the amendment to 5 U.S.C. 5545(d)(1) made by Public Law 117-58 (Nov. 
15, 2021).
    Prescribed fire duties such as ignition, holding, patrol, mop-up, 
fireline construction, and snag felling expose employees to open flame, 
radiant and convective heat, smoke, unstable terrain, fire-weakened 
trees, chemical by-products of combustion, and biological hazards. OPM 
concluded that these hazards cannot be fully mitigated through 
training, personal protective equipment, or standard operational 
controls and are comparable in degree to the hazards supporting the 
existing 25 percent differential for wildfire fireline work.

III. Response to Major Comments

a. Coverage of GW Pay Plan and 0456 Wildland Firefighter Employees

    OPM received 7 comments from employees recommending that the final 
rule include employees paid under the GW pay plan. See, e.g., Comments 
04, 05, 13, 19, and 03.\1\ The proposed rule addressed the coverage of 
employees under the GW code for wildland firefighters. Footnote 1 of 
the proposed rule (91 FR 19081) expressly stated that references to 
`GS' employees include GW wildland firefighters. As such, qualifying GS 
employees, including employees under pay plan code GW, engaged in 
prescribed fire activities, will be entitled to a 25 percent HDP 
differential.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ A reference at the end of a comment summary provides the 
location of the item in the public record. (i.e., the three-digit 
number associated with the location in the docket). Comments filed 
in response to the proposed rule are available at <a href="https://www.regulations.gov/comment/OPM-2026-0199-00nn">https://www.regulations.gov/comment/OPM-2026-0199-00nn</a> where ``nn'' is the 
comment number.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Accordingly, GW pay plan employees are not excluded from this final 
rule. Eligibility is determined by whether the employee performs 
covered duties under the regulatory standard, not by the pay plan code 
alone. A GS employee (including one with a GS, GW, or other pay plan 
code for a subcategory of GS employees) or an FWS employee must satisfy 
the same duty-based requirement: participation as a member of a 
firefighting crew engaged in activities on the fireline directly 
involving implementation and control of a prescribed wildland fire.

b. Legal Authority, Position Classification, and Double-Compensation 
Concerns

    Several comments argued that the real issue is not whether 
prescribed fires are hazardous, but whether hazard pay is legally 
authorized under OPM statutes. The commenters contend that employees in 
the 0456 Wildland Fire Management occupational series paid under the GW 
scale should not receive hazard pay for wildfire or prescribed fire 
duties because those hazards are already built into the position 
classification, job expectations, and base compensation, so any 
additional differential would amount to double compensation and 
conflict with 5 CFR 550.904. By contrast, other GS positions (such as 
``GS timber employees'') are not primarily classified or paid as 
wildland firefighters, and when they perform fireline or other fire-
related duties--including work in burned areas where hazards such as 
fire-weakened trees remain--the risks fall outside their normal 
position descriptions and base pay, making hazard pay appropriate. The 
comments conclude that OPM should apply its regulations consistently by 
denying hazard pay to GW employees whose hazardous duties are already 
compensated through the classification and associated base pay of their 
position, while authorizing it for other GS employees who perform 
similar hazardous duties without equivalent pay, thereby reducing pay 
inequities and avoiding disincentives for non-fire personnel to support 
fire operations. See, e.g., Comments 61, 62, 64, and 65.
    As stated in the proposed rule, while 5 U.S.C. 5545(d)(1) and 5 CFR 
550.904 generally bar hazard pay when a hazard has already been taken 
into account in the classification of the position, Congress amended 5 
U.S.C. 5545(d)(1)(A) to create an exception for employees in 
occupational series whose primary duties involve the prevention, 
control, suppression, or management of wildland fires. This exception 
means GW-0456 employees are not categorically barred from hazard pay 
simply because fire duties are part of their position duties. 
Furthermore, the comments make a distinction between ``GW'' and ``GS'' 
employees. As we previously stated, ``GS'' refers to the General 
Schedule classification and pay system and multiple pay plan codes 
exist within this system, including the GW code for wildland 
firefighters; references to GS employees in the proposed rule therefore 
include wildland firefighters under the GW pay plan code.
    Regarding the argument that GS and FWS employees outside the 
primary fire series should not be undercompensated when they perform 
the same hazardous fireline work, this point supports including those 
employees; it does not justify excluding GW employees who are doing the 
same qualifying work under a statute that now expressly permits hazard 
pay for employees in an occupational series for wildland firefighters. 
In conclusion, GW-0456 wildland firefighters are eligible for 
prescribed-fire hazard pay when they meet the same duty-based criteria 
that apply to other covered GS employees.

c. Prior Wildland Firefighter Pay Enhancements

    One commenter asserted that Federal firefighters have already 
received substantial compensation enhancements--including a temporary 
$20,000 pay increase, a permanent pay increase, creation of the 0456 
occupational series, and the GW pay scale--and that these changes were 
meant to account for the hazards of wildland firefighting in their base 
pay. Because of that, the commenter contends GW employees should no 
longer receive hazard pay differentials, as doing so would amount to 
double compensation and violate applicable law. In contrast, the 
commenter stated that other GS and FWS employees who perform fire 
duties only on a collateral, emergency, or situational basis have not 
had those hazards built into their base pay and therefore should remain 
eligible for hazard pay. The commenter concluded that OPM should end 
hazard pay for GW employees to comply with its rules and avoid widening 
pay disparities between GW employees and other GS/FWS employees 
performing similar work. Comment 76.
    The assertion that GW employees must be excluded from hazard pay is 
inconsistent with current law. Congress amended 5 U.S.C. 5545(d)(1)(A) 
specifically to create an exception to the

[[Page 52481]]

hazard pay provisions for wildland firefighters (including those who 
prevent, control, suppress, or manage wildland fires) so that they may 
receive hazard pay even when their position description includes said 
hazard. Moreover, the 2022 Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. 
L. 117-58) did not give every firefighter employee a permanent blanket 
$20,000 raise but gave eligible USDA and DOI wildland firefighters a 
temporary supplement of up to $20,000 a year or 50 percent of base 
salary, whichever was less. Furthermore, wildland firefighter pay 
reform was enacted by Congress in section 1807 of the Full-Year 
Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025 (Public Law 119-4), 
which established a special base rate for GS and FWS firefighter 
employees. Any fairness concerns involving GS and FWS employees who 
perform wildland firefighting activities as a collateral-duty may be 
addressed by ensuring they are properly compensated under existing law 
and regulation for the work they perform rather than by withholding 
hazard pay from GW firefighters that the governing statutes authorize.

d. Whether Prescribed Fire Duties Warrant the Differential and Scope of 
Covered Activities

    One commenter wrote against the implementation of OPM's proposal, 
stating that prescribed fire operations, when properly planned and 
executed, are controlled activities designed to minimize risk to 
personnel and are not inherently more hazardous than other types of 
``woods work'' that do not qualify for hazard pay. Additionally, the 
commenter said that burn plans are developed in advance, ignition is 
avoided when dangerous weather is forecast, equipment and personnel are 
prepositioned, and site hazards are identified and mitigated, unlike 
wildfire operations, which are often fast-moving and unpredictable. The 
commenter further added that much prescribed fire work involves staging 
personnel and equipment and waiting for favorable conditions, raising 
the question of whether hazard pay would be provided for many hours 
that involve little or no unusual danger. The commenter also said that, 
if a prescribed burn escapes, existing rules already allow it to be 
treated as a wildfire, at which point hazard pay applies. The commenter 
also expressed concern that extending hazard pay to prescribed fire 
could create incentives for operations to take longer than necessary, 
increasing costs to taxpayers. Comment 21.
    As explained in the proposed rule, this rulemaking will add a 25 
percent differential only for GS and FWS employees who are members of a 
firefighting crew engaged in activities on the fireline directly 
involving the implementation and control of a prescribed wildland fire. 
Pre-ignition preparatory activities are not covered. Our rationale is 
not that prescribed fire is identical to wildfire in every respect; it 
is that employees on the fireline during ignition, holding, patrol, 
snag felling, and mop-up still face open flame, radiant and convective 
heat, smoke, unstable terrain, fire-weakened trees, and chemical and 
biological hazards that cannot be fully mitigated. The proposed rule 
cites 2,142 smoke or inhalation exposure incidents during prescribed 
fire operations from 2018 to 2023, 15 prescribed fire fatalities from 
2003 to 2023, and injury frequency and severity similar to large-fire 
suppression (91 FR 19082 and 19083). Furthermore, OPM specifically did 
not include ``preparation'' in the proposed regulatory language and 
explained in the proposed rule that the new differential is justified 
by management of an active fire and its aftermath, not preparatory 
activities before ignition. As such, moving personnel and equipment 
into place and waiting for the burn window will not be the trigger for 
payment. Additionally, the hazards OPM identifies exist before any loss 
of containment: ignition, holding, patrol, mop-up, smoke exposure, 
heat, falling trees, unstable terrain, and other direct fireline 
hazards all occur during a successful prescribed burn. Waiting until an 
operation fails before recognizing hazard pay would compensate the 
escape event, but not the hazardous fireline work performed during 
normal prescribed fire implementation. The rule compensates hazardous 
fireline work that continues after ignition, not unnecessary delays.
    Lastly, while this commenter raised concerns that the proposed 
differential could increase the duration and cost of prescribed fire 
operations, the agencies that requested this authority have determined 
that the pay incentive is necessary and appropriate and that its 
benefits outweigh any additional costs. Proper management of prescribed 
fire activities and firefighting crews is the responsibility of the 
Forest Service and DOI.

e. Comparison to Other Hazardous Forest Service Duties

    Another commenter stated that prescribed fire activities are among 
the least dangerous duties performed by Forest Service employees. The 
commenter wrote that timber sale staff, recreation technicians, forest 
protection officers, and employees who clean and maintain recreation 
sites often face far greater risks, including encounters with armed 
individuals in isolated areas, a wide range of chemicals, and 
environmental hazards. The commenter also said either HDP or EDP should 
apply broadly to all employees facing these kinds of risks, or it 
should not be provided at all. Comment 56.
    The fact that other Forest Service employees may also face certain 
on-the-job risks does not mean firefighters performing prescribed fire 
duties on the fireline should be denied hazard pay if their work meets 
the standard for unusual hazard exposure. The proposed rule is not a 
blanket bonus for all agency employees; it is limited to those directly 
involved in implementing and controlling prescribed fire on the 
fireline. In those roles, employees are exposed to hazards such as 
heat, smoke, open flame, unstable terrain, and fire-damaged trees--
risks that may be reduced by planning and protective equipment but not 
eliminated. Whether other jobs can also have risks is beyond the scope 
of this rulemaking; this rulemaking is limited to the issue of whether 
this particular work qualifies for hazard pay under the applicable 
standard. If other positions deserve similar consideration, that should 
be evaluated separately through an evidence-based review and future 
rulemaking, as appropriate.

f. Requests To Expand Coverage to Smokejumper Training, Aviation, and 
Air Tanker Base Personnel

    One organization supported OPM's proposal, asserting that 
firefighters face the same smoke exposure, fire behavior, and physical 
demands on prescribed burns as they do on wildfires. The organization 
also asked OPM to consider expanding the rule to include smokejumper 
proficiency and training jumps, arguing that those jumps carry risks 
similar to operational jumps. Comment 92. Another commenter argued that 
fixed-wing and air tanker base personnel also face serious hazards, 
including spinning propellers, Jet A exhaust, and airborne retardant 
particles, and asserted that hazard pay should be considered more 
broadly for employees involved in other hazardous firefighting 
activities, not just those on the fireline. Comment 81.
    OPM appreciates these comments but is not expanding the final rule 
beyond the scope of the proposed rule, which was limited to prescribed-
fire fireline activities. The proposed rule built a record for 
employees participating as members of a firefighting crew engaged in 
fireline activities directly involving

[[Page 52482]]

implementation and control of prescribed wildland fires. Smokejumper 
proficiency or training jumps, aviation operations, ramp operations, 
and air tanker base activities present distinct questions that were not 
the subject of this rulemaking record. If those activities warrant 
additional differential pay categories, they may be considered 
separately through an evidence-based review and future rulemaking, as 
appropriate. Limiting this rule to the hazards OPM has evaluated based 
on USDA and DOI requests does not imply that other activities are risk-
free; it reflects the scope of this rulemaking.

g. Miscellaneous Comments

    One commenter supported OPM's proposal but argued that the cost of 
wildfire damage and mitigation should be paid by the fossil fuel 
industry rather than taxpayers because climate change driven by fossil 
fuel use has increased the frequency and severity of fires. Comment 94. 
OPM acknowledges receipt of the commenter's views regarding climate 
change, fossil-fuel producers, and who should bear the financial burden 
of wildfire mitigation; however, these issues are outside the scope of 
this rule.
    Another comment asked OPM to issue guidance identifying endangered 
species affected by this rule. OPM acknowledges receipt of the 
commenter's views regarding listed species and habitat protection 
during prescribed burns. Comment 93. However, this rulemaking is 
limited to pay administration for Federal employees. Responsibilities 
for identifying listed species, evaluating habitat effects, and 
conducting the appropriate environmental reviews for wildland fire 
activities remain with the responsible agencies under other existing 
authorities.

IV. Section-by-Section Analysis

a. Part 532--Prevailing Rate Systems

    OPM is amending appendix A to subpart E of 5 CFR part 532 to add a 
new EDP category under Part II, category 10, Firefighting, for FWS 
employees. The new category authorizes a 25 percent differential for 
employees participating as a member of a firefighting crew engaged in 
activities on the fireline directly involving the implementation and 
control of a prescribed wildland fire. The differential is payable on 
the basis of hours in pay status, consistent with the structure of Part 
II of the EDP schedule. All other firefighting EDP categories remain in 
place.

b. Part 550--Pay Administration (General)

    OPM is adding 5 CFR 550.904(f) to clarify that the restriction on 
paying HDP when a hazard or physical hardship has been taken into 
account in the classification of an employee's position does not apply 
to an employee in an occupational series covering positions for which 
the primary duties involve the prevention, control, suppression, or 
management of wildland fire. This amendment implements the statutory 
exception in 5 U.S.C. 5545(d)(1)(A).
    OPM is also amending appendix A to subpart I of 5 CFR part 550 to 
revise the Firefighting category in the HDP schedule. The revised 
category adds a 25 percent differential for GS employees participating 
as a member of a firefighting crew engaged in activities on the 
fireline directly involving the implementation and control of a 
prescribed wildland fire. The amendment leaves the existing 
firefighting categories for forest and range fires, equipment, 
installation, or building fires, and in-water under-pier firefighting 
operations in place.

V. Expected Impact of This Rule

A. Statement of Need

    This final rule is needed to address a pay disparity between 
Federal employees performing prescribed wildland fire activities and 
Federal employees performing comparable wildfire fireline duties. This 
rule is also intended to improve recruitment and retention of GS and 
FWS employees needed to carry out prescribed fire operations.

B. Impact

    This final rule will primarily apply to firefighters at USDA and 
DOI. In limited circumstances, however, other agencies may also have 
employees temporarily assigned to prescribed wildland fire activities 
who meet the criteria for payment of a differential. OPM estimated in 
the proposed rule that approximately 10,000 GS employees and 2,500 FWS 
employees at USDA and DOI could be affected. OPM did not receive any 
comment on that estimate.

C. Costs

    Utilizing current GS and FWS pay rates, USDA has estimated that 
providing HDP and EDP for prescribed fires will cost around $20 million 
annually, while the DOI has estimated it to be around $12.5 million 
annually.
    All Forest Service employees engaged in prescribed fires and 
wildfire response are paid from a single salary line for firefighters. 
The Forest Service sees on average roughly 80 percent of the 
operational firefighters participating in prescribed fire in any given 
fiscal year. The cost estimate of $20 million for the Forest Service 
for FY 2026 is based on approximately 250 hours of prescribed fire 
operations per employee. These numbers can fluctuate heavily depending 
on burn conditions, weather, frequency of wildfires (which take 
priority), etc.
    Using the FY 2025 total as the baseline, DOI compared FY 2025 
prescribed fire accomplishments (acres treated) with draft FY 2026 and 
FY 2027 targets, which are about 10 percent higher than FY 2025 
accomplishments. To accommodate both the expected increase in work and 
labor costs--including a 1 percent annual pay adjustment in January 
2026, DOI increased the FY 2026 Hazard Pay estimate by 11 percent over 
FY 2025 actual obligations, resulting in $8.95 million, rounded up to 
$9.0 million. For FY 2027, DOI increased the estimate from $9.0 million 
to $9.5 million (a 5.6 percent increase) to account for potential 
additional labor cost increases and further increases in targets and 
accomplishments, reflecting DOI leadership and administration 
priorities around fuels management and the expectation of a 
departmental performance target in the FY 2026/2027 timeframe. OPM did 
not receive any comment on that estimate.

D. Benefits

    This rule has important benefits. As stated in the proposed 
regulation, the hazards faced by FWS and GS employees conducting 
prescribed fire activities mirror those faced by FWS and GS employees 
managing wildfires. Providing commensurate pay for prescribed fire 
operations will help with recruiting and retaining FWS and GS 
employees. Providing the differential pay also shows a recognition of 
the risks associated with the work performed by wildland firefighters 
and places a correct and higher value on the much-needed service.

Regulatory Compliance

A. Regulatory Review

    OPM has examined the impact of this rule as required by Executive 
Orders 12866 and 13563, which direct agencies to assess all costs and 
benefits of available regulatory alternatives and, if regulation is 
necessary, to select regulatory approaches that maximize net benefits 
(including potential economic, environmental, public, health, and 
safety effects, distributive

[[Page 52483]]

impacts, and equity). A regulatory impact analysis must be prepared for 
rules that have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more 
or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the 
economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public 
health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or 
communities. This rulemaking does not reach that threshold and was not 
designated as a ``significant regulatory action'' under section 3(f) of 
E.O. 12866. This rule is not considered an Executive Order 14192 
regulatory action because it imposes no more than de minimis costs.

B. Regulatory Flexibility Act

    The Director of OPM certifies that this rulemaking will not have a 
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.

C. Federalism

    This regulation will not have substantial direct effects on the 
States, on the relationship between the National Government and the 
States, or on distribution of power and responsibilities among the 
various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with E.O. 13132, 
the Director of OPM certifies that this final rule does not have 
sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a 
Federalism Assessment.

D. Civil Justice Reform

    This rulemaking meets the applicable standard set forth in section 
3(a) and (b)(2) of E.O. 12988.

E. Unfunded Mandates Act of 1995

    Section 202 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (UMRA) 
requires that agencies assess anticipated costs and benefits before 
issuing any rule that would impose spending costs on State, local, or 
tribal governments in the aggregate, or on the private sector, in any 1 
year of $100 million in 1995 dollars, updated annually for inflation. 
That threshold is currently approximately $206 million. This rulemaking 
will not result in the expenditure by State, local, or tribal 
governments, in the aggregate, or by the private sector, in excess of 
the threshold. Thus, no written assessment of unfunded mandates is 
required.

F. Congressional Review Act

    Subtitle E of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness 
Act of 1996 (known as the Congressional Review Act or CRA) (5 U.S.C. 
801 et seq.) requires most final rules to be submitted to Congress 
before taking effect. OPM will submit to Congress and the Comptroller 
General of the United States a report regarding the issuance of this 
rule before its effective date. The Office of Information and 
Regulatory Affairs in the Office of Management and Budget has 
determined that this rule is not a major rule as defined by the CRA (5 
U.S.C. 804).

G. Paperwork Reduction Act

    This rulemaking does not impose any reporting or record-keeping 
requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act, as amended (44 
U.S.C. Chapter 35).

List of Subjects

5 CFR Part 532

    Administrative practice and procedure, Freedom of information, 
Government employees, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Wages.

5 CFR Part 550

    Administrative practice and procedure, Claims, Government 
employees, Wages.

Signing Statement

    The Director of OPM, Scott Kupor, reviewed and approved this 
document and has authorized the undersigned to electronically sign and 
submit this document to the Office of the Federal Register for 
publication.

Office of Personnel Management.
Jerson Matias,
Federal Register Liaison.

    Accordingly, OPM is amending 5 CFR parts 532 and 550 as follows:

PART 532--PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS

0
1. The authority citation for part 532 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5343, 5346. Sec. 532.707 also issued under 5 
U.S.C. 552.


0
2. In appendix A to subpart E of part 532, amend the table by adding a 
new activity to the schedule of environmental differentials under 
category ``10. Firefighting'' in the table titled ``Part II--Payment on 
Basis of Hours in Pay Status'' to read as follows:

Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 532--Schedule of Environmental 
Differentials Paid for Exposure to Various Degrees of Hazards, Physical 
Hardships, and Working Conditions of an Unusual Nature

* * * * *

                                Part II--Payment on Basis of Hours in Pay Status
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Differential rate (percent)                 Category for which payable                  Effective date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                                  * * * * * * *
                                     10. Firefighting. Participating or assisting in  July 1, 1972.
                                      firefighting operations on the immediate fire
                                      scene and in direct exposure to the hazards
                                      inherent in containing or extinguishing fires.
25.................................  High degree....................................
                                     --Fighting forest and range fires on the         July 1, 1972.
                                      fireline.
                                     --Participating as a member of a firefighting    First pay period beginning
                                      crew engaged in activities on the fireline       on or after September 14,
                                      directly involving the implementation and        2026.
                                      control of a prescribed wildland fire.
 
                                                  * * * * * * *
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 52484]]

* * * * *

PART 550--PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)

0
3. The authority citation for subpart I of part 550 continues to read 
as follows:

    Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5545(d), 5548(b).


0
4. In Sec.  550.904, add paragraph (f) to read as follows:
* * * * *
    (f) The provisions of this section concerning payment of a hazard 
pay differential when a hazard or physical hardship is taken into 
account in the classification of an employee's position does not apply 
to an employee in an occupational series covering positions for which 
the primary duties involve the prevention, control, suppression, or 
management of wildland fire.

0
5. In appendix A to subpart I of part 550--Schedule of Pay Differential 
Authorized for Hazardous Duty Under Subpart I, amend the table by 
revising the ``Firefighting'' category in the Hazard Pay Differential 
to read as follows:

Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 550--Schedule of Pay Differentials 
Authorized for Hazardous Duty Under Subpart I

* * * * *

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           Rate of hazard
                                                                 pay
                           Duty                             differential               Effective date
                                                              (percent)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                                  * * * * * * *
Firefighting:
    (1) Forest and range fires. Participating as a member              25  First pay period beginning after July
     of a firefighting crew in fighting forest and range                    1, 1969.
     fires on the fireline.
    (2) Prescribed wildland fire operations.                           25  First pay period beginning on or
     Participating as a member of a firefighting crew                       after September 14, 2026.
     engaged in activities on the fireline directly
     involving the implementation and control of a
     prescribed wildland fire.
    (3) Equipment, installation, or building fires.                    25  First pay period beginning after July
     Participating as an emergency member of a                              1, 1969.
     firefighting crew in fighting fires of equipment,
     installations, or buildings.
    (4) In-water under-pier firefighting operations.                   25  Do.
     Participating in in-water under-pier firefighting
     operations (involving hazards beyond those normally
     encountered in firefighting on land, e.g., strong
     currents, cold water temperature).
 
                                                  * * * * * * *
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[FR Doc. 2026-16687 Filed 8-13-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6325-39-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>