<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 180 (Friday, September 18, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 180 (Friday, September 18, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 59066-59075]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-19207]



[[Page 59066]]

=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

48 CFR Parts 3025 and 3052

[Docket No. DHS-2024-0020]
RIN 1601-AB15


Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation, Make Personal 
Protective Equipment in America Act Restrictions on Foreign Acquisition 
(HSAR Case 2024-003)

AGENCY: Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO), Department of 
Homeland Security (DHS).

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: DHS is issuing a final rule to amend the Homeland Security 
Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) codifying how DHS complies with the 
requirements of the Make Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in America 
Act. These changes are intended to ensure the sustainment and expansion 
of domestic manufacturing for certain types of PPE critical to the 
United States' national response to a public health crisis.

DATES: The final rule is effective October 19, 2026.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Shaundra Ford, Department of Homeland 
Security, Office of the Chief Procurement Officer, Acquisition Policy 
and Legislation, at (202) 282-8000 or email at <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#b0f8e3f1e2f0d8c19ed4d8c39ed7dfc6"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="0b43584a594b637a256f6378256c647d">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>. Include 
HSAR Case 2024-003 in the subject line.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 

Table of Contents for Preamble

I. Background
II. Discussion of Public Comments
III. Final Rule
IV. Regulatory Analyses
    A. Executive Orders 12866, 13563, and 14094
    B. Regulatory Flexibility Act
    C. Paperwork Reduction Act
    D. National Environmental Policy Act

I. Background

    In a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), published in the Federal 
Register on October 1, 2024, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) 
proposed to amend the Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) 
to codify how DHS complies with the requirements of the Make Personal 
Protective Equipment (PPE) in America Act.\1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ See 89 FR 79851, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation, 
Make Personal Protective Equipment in America Act Restrictions on 
Foreign Acquisition (HSAR Case 2024-003) (Oct. 1, 2024)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    As explained in the NPRM, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs 
Act was signed into law on November 15, 2021.\2\ Subtitle C of title IX 
of Division G of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act is the Make 
PPE in America Act (``MPAA'' or ``the Act'').\3\ The Act requires the 
DHS, Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services (HHS) to take certain actions to ensure the 
sustainment and expansion of domestic manufacturing for certain types 
of PPE critical to the United States' national response to a public 
health crisis.\4\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \2\ Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Public Law 117-58, 
135 Stat. 429 (2021).
    \3\ Make PPE in America Act, Public Law 117-58, div. G, title 
IX, subtitle C, sections 70951-70953, 135 Stat. 1312-1316. The Make 
PPE in America Act is codified in 41 U.S.C. 8301 note.
    \4\ Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 1312.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The Act defines PPE as surgical masks, respirator masks and powered 
air purifying respirators and required filters, face shields and 
protective eyewear, gloves, disposable and reusable surgical and 
isolation gowns, head and foot coverings, and other gear or clothing 
used to protect an individual from the transmission of disease.\5\ The 
Act requires that any contracts for the procurement of PPE entered into 
by DHS, HHS, or VA be for PPE, including the materials and components 
thereof, that is domestically grown, reprocessed, reused, or 
produced.\6\ The Act also requires that these contracts with DHS, HHS, 
or VA for PPE last at least two years in duration plus all option 
periods necessary, to incentivize investment in the domestic production 
of PPE and the materials and components thereof.\7\ The Act allows for 
alternatives to domestic production under certain conditions (i.e., 
where PPE assembled outside of the United States (U.S.) contains only 
materials and components grown, reprocessed, reused or produced in the 
U.S.).\8\ When using alternatives to domestic production, DHS, HHS, or 
VA, as applicable, must certify every 120 days that alternatives to 
domestic production are necessary to procure PPE due to the immediate 
needs of a public health emergency.\9\ The Act further recognizes 
certain exceptions to the domestic production of PPE, such as due to 
nonavailability, or where the PPE cannot be procured at U.S. market 
prices.\10\ Where DHS, HHS, or VA respectively grants an exception, 
that Secretary would also need to certify that implementing these 
exceptions are necessary to meet the immediate needs of a public health 
emergency.\11\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \5\ Public Law 117-58., 135 Stat. 1313.
    \6\ Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 1313-14.
    \7\ Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 1314.
    \8\ Id.
    \9\ Id.
    \10\ Id.
    \11\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    As discussed in the NPRM, the DHS Chief Procurement Officer can 
issue HSAR deviations when necessary to allow Components to deviate 
from the HSAR.\12\ On October 17, 2022, DHS issued a deviation 
regarding how DHS would comply with the Make PPE in America Act 
requirements (Deviation 23-01).\13\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \12\ See HSAR Deviations, available at: <a href="https://www.dhs.gov/publication/current-hsar-deviations">https://www.dhs.gov/publication/current-hsar-deviations</a>.
    \13\ See HSAR 3001.4 and HSAR Class Deviation 23-01 
Implementation of the Make PPE in America Act at <a href="https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/2022-10/HSARClassDeviation23-01ImplementationofMakePPEinAmericaAct-508Final.pdf">https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/2022-10/HSARClassDeviation23-01ImplementationofMakePPEinAmericaAct-508Final.pdf</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

II. Discussion of Public Comments

    Interested parties were given until December 2, 2024, to comment on 
the NPRM. DHS reviewed the public comments in the development of the 
final rule. DHS received 23 public comments. A certain number of the 
comments received were outside the scope of the rule. A discussion of 
the comments within the scope of the rule is provided, as follows:

1. Definitions

    Comment: Several commenters asked DHS to modify its definition of 
``component,'' ``domestic personal protective equipment,'' ``foreign-
assembled domestic personal protective equipment,'' and ``foreign 
personal protective equipment.'' Commenters suggested including the 
availability exception in the Act for nonavailable articles listed in 
FAR 25.104(a) to these definitions and, for the ``foreign-assembled 
domestic personal protective equipment,'' and ``foreign personal 
protective equipment'' definitions, limiting the applicability of FAR 
25.104(a) to components used in American manufacturing facilities.
    Commenters noted the MPAA includes a nonavailability exception that 
permits agencies to acquire covered PPE from foreign sources when 
compliant domestic products are not available in sufficient quantity or 
quality to meet agency requirements or are included in the nonavailable 
articles listing in FAR 25.104(a). The commenters further stated that 
nitrile butadiene rubber (NBR), a key raw material used to manufacture 
nitrile gloves, is a synthetic latex rubber and therefore falls within 
definition of ``rubber, crude, and latex'' which is currently 
identified as nonavailable in the listing. The commenters assert that

[[Page 59067]]

inclusion of an express reference to FAR 25.104(a) in the ``component'' 
definition will limit waivers from the Act's requirements that allow 
DHS to acquire foreign-sourced nitrile gloves.
    Additionally, the commenters stated that the existing definitions 
of ``foreign-assembled domestic personal protective equipment,'' and 
``foreign personal protective equipment'' circumvent the intent of the 
Act, allowing for the offshore of manufactured items to be identified 
as domestic and providing foreign manufacturers an advantage over 
American manufacturers.
    Response: DHS declines to adopt the commenters' suggestions to 
revise the definitions to incorporate FAR 25.104(a); to otherwise 
address the domestic nonavailability status of NBR; and to include 
language limiting the applicability of FAR 25.104(a) to components used 
in American manufacturing facilities.
    First, the nonavailable articles list at FAR 25.104(a) is subject 
to periodic review and amendment. Incorporating specific references to 
articles identified as nonavailable under FAR 25.104(a) into the HSAR 
could create inconsistencies if future revisions are made to the FAR. 
DHS therefore believes it is more appropriate to rely on the existing 
statutory and regulatory framework rather than codify specific 
nonavailability determinations in the HSAR.
    Second, DHS disagrees with the commenters' assertion that the 
nonavailability exception in section 70953(d) of the MPAA applies only 
to domestic manufacturing facilities. Section 70953(d)(1) expressly 
provides that the requirements of sections (b) and (c) do not apply to 
an item of personal protective equipment, or component or material 
thereof, that is, or that includes, a material listed in FAR 25.104. 
Accordingly, the statute expressly contemplates application of the 
nonavailability exception to covered PPE, components, and materials, 
including those acquired under the alternative domestic production 
authority. Limiting the exception as suggested would be inconsistent 
with the plain language of the Act.
    Third, DHS does not believe that revisions to the definitions are 
necessary to address NBR nonavailability under the Act. Since 
implementing the MPAA in October 2022, DHS has relied on 
nonavailability waivers to acquire nitrile gloves for a variety of 
reasons, including limited domestic manufacturing capacity to meet DHS 
specifications and quantity requirements; limited availability of 
domestic nitrile gloves capable of successfully passing Transportation 
Security Administration (TSA) testing requirements; and the lack of 
domestic production of NBR. Prior to January 2026, DHS sourced nitrile 
gloves from both domestic and foreign manufacturers. However, as 
domestic manufacturing capacity expanded, DHS transitioned to sourcing 
all nitrile glove requirements from domestic manufacturers.\14\ 
Although domestic manufacturers continue to rely on foreign-sourced NBR 
due to the current absence of domestic NBR production, DHS has 
demonstrated that it can achieve its domestic sourcing objectives 
without modifying the definitions as suggested.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \14\ See, e.g., DHS waiver for nitrile butadiene rubber 
available at <a href="https://www.madeinamerica.gov/waivers/nonavailability/6994cfdf16e70851109b4247">https://www.madeinamerica.gov/waivers/nonavailability/6994cfdf16e70851109b4247</a> (last visited Sep. 8, 2026).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Moreover, whether NBR may be categorized as ``rubber, crude, and 
latex'' under FAR 25.104(a) is not dispositive for the purposes of this 
rule. Because NBR is not currently produced domestically, agencies 
acquiring covered PPE that contains NBR have historically relied on the 
MPAA's nonavailability exception and associated waiver processes to 
support the domestic nonavailability status of NBR. DHS therefore does 
not believe revising the definitions is necessary to address the 
domestic nonavailability of NBR. Accordingly, DHS declines to 
incorporate specific references to FAR 25.104(a) or NBR in the 
regulatory definition of ``component.''

2. Expand ``Restrictions'' Section To Include Additional Language

    Comment: Multiple commenters requested that DHS revise HSAR 
3025.7102-1, Restrictions, to emphasize that the MPAA prioritizes PPE 
manufactured in the U.S. by American workers. These commenters also 
recommended narrowing the application of waivers and exceptions to 
ensure DHS gives preference to wholly domestic PPE supply chains and 
manufacturing facilities. The commenters assert that DHS's proposed 
implementation of the MPAA relies too heavily on broad waivers and 
exceptions, which could undermine the Act's purpose of strengthening 
domestic PPE manufacturing.
    The commenters argued that continued reliance on foreign-
manufactured gloves and reseller-based supply chains discourages 
private investment in U.S. manufacturing capacity, weakens domestic 
supply chain resilience, and places American jobs at a competitive 
disadvantage. The commenters requested that DHS include new paragraphs 
(c) and (d) to the restrictions listed in 3025.7102-1 as follows: ``(c) 
The intent of the law and priority is given to American Manufacturers 
of domestic personal protective equipment to include narrow waivers 
focused on United States based manufacturing facilities and exceptions 
identified herein to promote national security, support American 
manufacturing facilities in the United States, and American workers in 
an effort to reshore and sustain critical American manufacturing 
capability in the United States. (d) All contract for personal 
protective equipment, per the purpose of the, as identified in Section 
70951 of the Make PPE in America Act which purpose is for the United 
States to ensure a robust, secure, and wholly domestic PPE supply chain 
to safeguard public health and national security; to further this 
effort it provides DHS with flexibility on procurement sources as it 
does not incorporate any requirement to use a quasi-government 
mandatory source and thus DHS will use Small Business Sources and 
encourage our contracting officer to actively seek out and consider 
small businesses for contracts and American based manufacturing 
facilities that can manufacture in the United States as priority 
options.''
    Finally, some commenters contended that the Act's requirements 
should apply to ``quasi-governmental'' procurement programs and 
recommended DHS exhaust domestic manufacturing sources before relying 
on resellers or nonmanufacturer arrangements.
    Response: DHS declines to add the suggested language to the 
regulatory text in section 3025.7102-1. It is unnecessary to include 
the purpose and intent of the statute and intent of the law in the 
regulatory text as the regulations do not change this. Such language 
may also cause confusion as similar language is not typically included 
in acquisition regulations.
    DHS also disagrees with the commenters' characterization of DHS's 
use of waivers and exceptions under the MPAA. The Act expressly 
contemplates the use of exceptions and waivers in specified 
circumstances, including when compliant domestic products, components, 
or materials are unavailable. Accordingly, DHS's use of waivers is 
consistent with the MPAA which provides for exceptions where domestic 
industrial capacity is not sufficient to meet agency requirements.
    DHS further notes that the MPAA establishes domestic sourcing 
requirements for covered PPE but does

[[Page 59068]]

not create separate procurement preferences based on workforce 
composition, ownership structure, or the nationality of a 
manufacturer's employees. Therefore, DHS declines to adopt the 
commenters' proposed references to ``American workers'' and ``American 
manufacturers'' in the regulatory text.
    Finally, DHS declines to adopt the commenters' recommendation that 
contracting officers be required to exhaust domestic manufacturers 
before considering authorized distributors, resellers, or other 
permissible acquisition channels. The MPAA establishes sourcing 
requirements for covered PPE but does not prescribe particular 
distribution channels or acquisition methodologies. Accordingly, DHS 
does not believe such a requirement would be appropriate for inclusion 
in the HSAR. Such inclusion could inadvertently result in noncompliance 
with statutes governing competition in contracts which do not allow 
blanket preference of manufacturers over distributors and resellers.
    To the extent the commenters' references to ``quasi-government'' 
agency program contracts are directed at the AbilityOne Program and 
Procurement List requirements applicable to nitrile gloves, DHS notes 
that the AbilityOne Program operates pursuant to the Javits-Wagner-
O'Day (JWOD) Act, codified at 41 U.S.C. chapter 85, which establishes a 
mandatory source program for certain products and services furnished by 
qualified nonprofit agencies employing people who are blind or have 
significant disabilities. The Committee for Purchase From People Who 
Are Blind or Severely Disabled (operating as the AbilityOne Commission) 
administers the program and maintains the Procurement List, accessible 
at <a href="http://www.abilityone.gov">www.abilityone.gov</a>, identifying mandatory source products and 
services. Federal agencies are generally required to procure listed 
items through the designated AbilityOne nonprofit agency (NPA) or its 
authorized distribution channels in accordance with FAR subpart 8.7 
Acquisition from Nonprofit Agencies Employing People Who Are Blind or 
Severely Disabled of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. Accordingly, 
DHS is required to buy Procurement List \15\ products or services from 
the organization designated on the Procurement List or from an 
authorized AbilityOne distributor until: (1) the government no longer 
has requirements for that item, or (2) an NPA employing people who are 
blind or have significant disabilities can no longer furnish that item. 
This requirement remains unchanged by the MPAA.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \15\ See 41 U.S.C. chapter 85, FAR subpart 8.7, and the 
Procurement List at <a href="https://www.abilityone.gov/procurement_list/index.html">https://www.abilityone.gov/procurement_list/index.html</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    It appears some commenters incorrectly believe DHS is using the 
fact that nitrile gloves are a Procurement List item to circumvent the 
requirements of the MPAA. Upon implementation of the Act, DHS 
immediately extended the requirements of the MPAA to nitrile glove 
purchases from AbilityOne. DHS's reliance on waivers to acquire nitrile 
gloves had nothing to do with the fact that these items are sourced 
through AbilityOne. DHS used waivers to acquire nitrile gloves for a 
variety of reasons, including limited domestic manufacturing capacity 
to meet DHS specifications and quantity requirements, limited 
availability of domestic nitrile gloves capable of successfully passing 
TSA testing requirements, and the lack of domestic production of NBR. 
Prior to January 2026, DHS sourced nitrile gloves from both domestic 
and foreign manufacturers. However, as domestic manufacturing capacity 
expanded, DHS transitioned to sourcing all nitrile glove requirements 
from domestic manufacturers. The transition to sourcing 100 percent of 
DHS's nitrile gloves to domestic manufacturers is largely attributable 
to the partnership between DHS and our AbilityOne NPA. Accordingly, DHS 
declines to adopt the suggestion as it is not needed to achieve its 
domestic sourcing objectives.

3. Exceptions Language

    Comment: Several commenters asserted that section 70953(d)(1)(A) of 
the MPAA expressly incorporates the nonavailability determinations 
contained in FAR 25.104(a) and therefore excludes covered PPE component 
and materials identified on that list from the Act's domestic sourcing 
requirements. The commenters argued that DHS should revise HSAR 
3025.7102-2 to clarify that materials such as NBR are automatically 
exempt from the Act when used in PPE manufactured in the United States 
and that no additional nonavailability determination or waiver should 
be required.
    Response: DHS declines the commenters' request to modify section 
3025.7102-2 to include reference to FAR 25.104 or otherwise address the 
domestic nonavailability status of NBR. The nonavailable articles list 
at FAR 25.104 is subject to periodic review and amendment. 
Incorporating specific references to articles identified as 
nonavailable under FAR 25.104 into the HSAR could create 
inconsistencies if future revisions are made to the FAR. DHS therefore 
believes it is more appropriate to rely on the existing statutory and 
regulatory framework rather than codify specific nonavailability 
determinations in the HSAR. DHS also disagrees with the commenters' 
assertion that the inclusion of a material, component, or supply on the 
FAR 25.104 nonavailability list automatically eliminates the need for 
agencies to comply with the Act's exception procedures. While section 
70953(d)(1)(A) references articles, materials, and supplies identified 
in FAR 25.104, DHS does not believe it is necessary or appropriate to 
incorporate those determinations directly into HSAR. The existing 
statutory and regulatory framework provides sufficient flexibility to 
address nonavailable materials and components without creating separate 
regulatory provisions for specific items in FAR 25.104. Additionally, 
because NBR is not currently produced domestically, agencies acquiring 
covered PPE that contains NBR have historically relied on the MPAA's 
nonavailability exception and associated waiver processes to address 
the lack of a domestic source. DHS therefore does not believe inclusion 
of the requested language is necessary to address the current domestic 
nonavailability of NBR.

4. HSAR 3052.225-7X Make PPE in America

    Comment: Multiple commenters requested DHS revise 3025.7102-2(b) to 
clarify treatment of components and materials identified as 
nonavailable under FAR 25.104. The commenters' asserted that PPE 
manufactured in the United Sates should remain compliant with the MPAA 
when it contains components or materials listed in FAR 25.104, 
including NBR. The commenters also proposed revising the paragraph to 
expressly recognize component-specific waivers and nonavailability 
determinations when evaluating compliance with the Act's domestic 
sourcing requirements as follows: ``(b) The Contractor shall deliver 
only domestic personal protective equipment except the domestic 
manufactured products include component items except under the FAR 
25.104 or the agency provides a specific component waiver for domestic 
manufactured personal protective equipment or to the extent that it 
specified delivery of foreign-assembled domestic personal protective 
equipment in the provision of the solicitation entitled ``Make PPE in 
America Certificate.''

[[Page 59069]]

    Response: Although the commenter cited HSAR 3025.7102-2(b), DHS 
understands the comment as requesting revisions to the clause at HSAR 
3052.225-7X based on the proposed clause language provided. 
Notwithstanding this, DHS declines to make this change to the clause. 
The regulatory text at 3025.7102-2 makes clear the applicability of the 
exception at FAR 25.104. Therefore, including a reference to the 
nonavailable articles listing in FAR 25.104 in the clause text is 
unnecessary and redundant.
    DHS also declines to incorporate references to specific 
nonavailable materials, component-specific waivers, or component-level 
nonavailability determinations into the clause. The purpose of the 
clause is to implement the contractor's obligation to provide covered 
PPE that complies with statutory and regulatory requirements applicable 
to the acquisition. The clause is not intended to restate all 
exceptions, waiver authorities, and nonavailability determination that 
may apply under the Act or related regulations. Those matters are 
addressed elsewhere in the statutory and regulatory framework, 
including HSAR 3025.7102-2. Accordingly, DHS believes the existing 
clause adequately implements the Act without the proposed revisions.

5. AbilityOne and Similar Network Providers

    Comment: One commenter requested creation of a specific category to 
clarify the status of PPE repackaging operations under programs like 
AbilityOne, ensuring transparency and alignment with domestic 
manufacturing priorities. The commenter asserts this refinement would 
ensure alignment with industry practices and the intent of the Act.
    The commenter also recommended DHS explicitly address AbilityOne 
exceptions within the order of precedence framework, stating that the 
Department's current model allows for foreign-produced PPE to receive 
preference through AbilityOne repackaging operations, undermining the 
intent of the MPAA. The commenter further stated this is particularly 
relevant for nitrile gloves, where certain providers import bulk 
products from Malaysia for domestic repackaging. To prevent this from 
happening, the commenter stated waiver usage should be narrowly 
tailored to support U.S. manufacturers utilizing TAA-compliant 
components rather than allowing broad allowances that benefit foreign 
producers.
    Response: DHS declines the commenter's recommendation to create a 
specific category for repackaging operations under programs like 
AbilityOne. DHS also declines to explicitly identify AbilityOne in the 
order of preference framework and disagrees that the current model 
allows for foreign-produced PPE to receive preference through 
AbilityOne repackaging operations.
    The AbilityOne Program operates pursuant to the JWOD Act, codified 
at 41 U.S.C. chapter 85, which establishes a mandatory source program 
for certain products and services furnished by qualified nonprofit 
agencies employing people who are blind or have significant 
disabilities. The Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or 
Severely Disabled (operating as the AbilityOne Commission) administers 
the program and maintains the Procurement List, accessible at 
<a href="http://www.abilityone.gov">www.abilityone.gov</a>, identifying mandatory source products and services. 
Federal agencies are generally required to procure listed items through 
the designated AbilityOne NPA or its authorized distribution channels 
in accordance with FAR subpart 8.7 Acquisition from Nonprofit Agencies 
Employing People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation.
    Nitrile gloves are a Procurement List item for the Department. DHS 
is required to buy Procurement List products or services from the 
organization designated on the Procurement List or from an authorized 
AbilityOne distributor until: (1) the government no longer has 
requirements for that item, or (2) an NPA employing people who are 
blind or have significant disabilities can no longer furnish that item. 
This requirement remains unchanged by the MPAA.
    As previously stated, it appears some commenters incorrectly 
believe DHS is using the fact that nitrile gloves are a Procurement 
List item to circumvent the requirements of the MPAA. Upon 
implementation of the Act, DHS immediately extended the requirements of 
the MPAA to nitrile glove purchases from AbilityOne. DHS's reliance on 
waivers to acquire nitrile gloves was unrelated to the items being 
sourced through AbilityOne. DHS used waivers to acquire nitrile gloves 
for a variety of reasons, including limited domestic manufacturing 
capacity to meet DHS specifications and quantity requirements, limited 
availability of domestic nitrile gloves capable of successfully passing 
TSA testing requirements, and the lack of domestic production of NBR. 
Prior to January 2026, DHS sourced nitrile gloves from both domestic 
and foreign manufacturers. However, as domestic manufacturing capacity 
expanded, DHS transitioned to sourcing all nitrile glove requirements 
from domestic manufacturers. The transition to sourcing 100 percent of 
DHS's nitrile gloves to domestic manufacturers is largely attributable 
to the partnership between DHS and our AbilityOne NPA. Accordingly, DHS 
declines to adopt the suggestions as they are not needed to achieve its 
domestic sourcing objectives.

6. Domestic PPE Categories

    Comment: One commenter asked DHS to split ``domestic personal 
protective equipment'' into two distinct categories, i.e., ``wholly 
domestic PPE'' for items manufactured entirely in the United States and 
``domestically manufactured PPE'' for items like nitrile gloves that 
currently require some imported raw materials. The commenter requested 
that the ``domestically manufactured PPE'' category explicitly 
recognize FAR 25.104(a) exceptions for materials like NBR, allowing 
sourcing from Trade Agreements Act (TAA)-compliant countries without 
penalty while maintaining domestic manufacturing status.
    Response: DHS declines to create sub-categories for domestic 
personal protective equipment. For the purposes of the MPAA, PPE is 
either domestic, foreign-assembled domestic, or foreign. These 
definitions were established for consistency with the MPAA which 
requires purchase of domestic PPE and use of alternative domestic 
sources when domestic PPE is not available. An additional defined 
category of PPE is not necessary to implement the availability 
exception regarding FAR 25.104. Notwithstanding this, the nonavailable 
articles list at FAR 25.104 is subject to periodic review and 
amendment.
    Incorporating specific references to articles identified as 
nonavailable under FAR 25.104 into the HSAR could create 
inconsistencies if future revisions are made to the FAR. DHS therefore 
believes it is more appropriate to rely on the existing statutory and 
regulatory framework rather than codify specific nonavailability 
determinations in the HSAR.

7. Exception Criteria for Nonavailability and Unreasonable Cost

    Comment: One commenter requested DHS provide additional guidance 
regarding the applicability of the nonavailability and unreasonable 
cost exceptions. Specifically, the commenter recommended: (1) 
establishing objective quality standards and qualification benchmarks 
for evaluating nonavailability determinations; (2) adopting defined 
methodologies and

[[Page 59070]]

thresholds for determining when costs are unreasonable, including 
consideration of total cost of ownership and reliability factors; and 
(3) clarifying materials and components identified as nonavailable 
under FAR 25.104, including NBR, are exempt from the Act's domestic 
sourcing requirements when incorporated into PPE manufactured in the 
United States.
    Response: DHS declines the commenter's recommendation to identify 
specific quality standards under the exception criteria for 
nonavailability and unreasonable cost. First, the MPAA provides 
explicit instruction on the use of the nonavailability exception. 
Second, DHS does not perform subjective quality assessments and instead 
relies on established PPE specifications. DHS PPE specifications are 
based on standards promulgated by either the American National 
Standards Institute (ANSI), American Society for Testing and Materials 
(ASTM), or National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH), and regarding nitrile gloves, TSA-specific testing for 
interference with explosives detection equipment/machines before use. 
DHS specifications for PPE have been shared with industry multiple 
times via industry meetings and postings to <a href="http://SAM.gov">SAM.gov</a>. As such, it is 
clear DHS does not rely on subjective quality standards.
    Regarding identification of a specific methodology for determining 
whether an item is being provided at an unreasonable cost, DHS declines 
the commenter's recommendation. DHS intentionally refrained from 
identifying a specific calculation methodology to allow more 
flexibility for DHS and to minimize unfavorable impacts to industry. 
This flexibility is needed due to fluctuating market conditions that 
could result in the use of unreasonable cost determinations too 
frequently. Additionally, given DHS acquires these items on a firm 
fixed price basis, we would not review the individual cost elements 
associated with the final price of the item. Notwithstanding this, to 
date DHS has not used the unreasonable cost exception to acquire 
personal protective equipment covered under this rulemaking.
    DHS declines to further identify that the requirements of the MPAA 
do not apply to PPE, or a component or material thereof, that is or 
includes a material on the nonavailable articles listing in FAR 
25.104(a) or limit the applicability of the exception to U.S.-based 
manufacturing facilities. The nonavailability exception is already 
addressed in the regulatory text. Specifically, section 3025.7102-
2(b)(1) states that the purchase restrictions of the MPAA do not apply 
to PPE, or component thereof, ``that is, or that includes, a material 
listed in FAR 25.104 as one for which a nonavailability determination 
has been made.'' Accordingly, DHS concludes the proposed revisions are 
unnecessary because the existing regulatory text already implements the 
statutory nonavailability exception and appropriately addresses 
materials identified in FAR 25.104.

8. Implementation Timeline

    Comment: One commenter stated that the proposed implementation 
timeline appears workable provided DHS maintains clear communication 
with industry and allows reasonable adjustment periods for 
manufacturers to scale production. The commenter recommended: (1) a 
phased approach to domestic content requirements, particularly for 
items requiring development of domestic raw material sources; (2) 
ongoing engagement with manufacturers to address implementation 
challenges and refine guidance as needed; and (3) clear instructions 
regarding certification and compliance documentation to minimize 
administrative burdens.
    Response: DHS appreciates the commenter's support for the proposed 
implementation timeline and agrees that continued communication with 
industry and clear compliance guidance are important to successful 
implementation of the Act. The MPAA directs agencies to implement the 
contract requirements beginning 90 days after the enactment of the Act. 
Accordingly, DHS lacks authority to phase in domestic sourcing 
requirements beyond the implementation framework established by 
Congress. As such, a phased approach to domestic content requirements 
is not possible. However, the Act authorizes the use of exceptions and 
waivers when covered PPE is unavailable from domestic sources or 
available only at an unreasonable cost, providing flexibility where 
domestic industrial capacity cannot meet requirements.
    DHS has established forums for ongoing engagement with industry on 
a variety of procurement topics, including the MPAA. Additionally, DHS 
waivers under the MPAA are publicly posted at <a href="http://MadeinAmerica.gov">MadeinAmerica.gov</a>. DHS 
intends to continue engaging with industry and other stakeholders 
regarding implementation of the Act and related acquisition 
requirements.
    The provision at 3052.225-7Y Make PPE in America Certificate 
clearly articulates how contractors must certify compliance with MPAA 
requirements, including requesting identification of the line item for 
the covered PPE item(s) identifies and the country of assembly. DHS 
believes the existing certification provision, together with publicly 
available solicitation and contract documentation, provides sufficient 
guidance regarding compliance with the Act and does not require further 
revision as part of this rulemaking.

9. Tiered Sourcing Hierarchy

    Comment: One commenter urged DHS to adopt a tiered sourcing 
hierarchy that prioritizes domestic PPE manufacturing to the greatest 
extent possible before allowing waivers under the MPAA. Specifically 
the commenter recommends DHS: (1) give first priority to PPE 
manufactured in the United States using domestically sourced 
components; (2) allow U.S.-manufactured PPE using TAA-country 
components when required components are not available domestically, 
without requiring a waiver; (3) allow U.S.-manufactured PPE using non-
TAA foreign components when domestic or TAA-sourced components are 
unavailable, without requiring a waiver; (4) permit waivers for 
foreign-manufactured PPE from TAA countries only after domestic 
manufacturing options have been exhausted; and (5) permit waivers for 
non-TAA foreign-manufactured PPE only as a last resort when no domestic 
or TAA-country sources are available. The commenter argues this 
approach would better advance the MPAA's objective of strengthening 
domestic PPE manufacturing by prioritizing U.S.-based production and 
employment while recognizing the practical reality that certain 
components, such as NBR, may not be available from domestic sources.
    Response: DHS declines to adopt the commenter's proposed 
restrictions on when a waiver may be used or establish the proposed 
sourcing hierarchy. The circumstances under which an exception may be 
used are defined in the MPAA. The Act requires agencies to prioritize 
the acquisition of covered PPE manufactured in the United States and 
authorizes the use of exceptions when covered PPE is unavailable or 
available only at an unreasonable cost. Nothing in the Act directs 
agencies to create additional tiers of preference among otherwise 
permissible sources or exhaust particular categories of suppliers 
before relying on a statutory exception.
    DHS has nevertheless taken an additional step beyond the 
requirements

[[Page 59071]]

of the MPAA by requiring procurement of either Buy American statute 
compliant or TAA-compliant PPE, depending on the dollar value of the 
procurement, when MPAA compliant PPE is not available. This approach 
ensures domestically manufactured PPE receives first consideration and 
that Buy American statute compliant or TAA-compliant PPE is acquired 
when MPAA compliant PPE cannot be obtained due to nonavailability or 
unreasonable cost.
    DHS also declines to adopt the proposed hierarchy because it does 
not account for all circumstances in which the Act authorizes use of an 
exception, including situations involving either nonavailability or 
unreasonable cost. Further, the proposed hierarchy does not account for 
agency-specific performance requirements that may affect the 
availability of compliant PPE, such as the TSA testing requirements 
applicable to nitrile gloves.
    Notwithstanding this, DHS has only used the nonavailability 
exception when sourcing nitrile gloves and only when necessary to meet 
mission requirements. To date, DHS has relied on the nonavailability 
exception to cover a portion of DHS's nitrile glove demand. Prior to 
January 2026, DHS sourced nitrile gloves from both domestic and foreign 
manufacturers. However, as domestic manufacturing capacity expanded, 
DHS transitioned to sourcing all nitrile glove requirements from 
domestic manufacturers.
    Accordingly, DHS declines to adopt the proposed sourcing hierarchy 
and believes the final rule appropriately implements the statutory 
framework established by Congress while preserving the flexibility 
necessary to address nonavailability, unreasonable cost, agency mission 
requirements, and changing market conditions.

10. Prioritization

    Comment: One commenter asked DHS to prioritize American-made 
products in government procurement decisions and carefully consider 
prioritizing products fully manufactured in the United States, but that 
might use certain raw materials unavailable domestically, from Trade 
Act compliant nations.
    Response: DHS already prioritizes wholly domestically manufactured 
PPE. When these items are not available, either due to nonavailability 
or unreasonable cost, DHS seeks to acquire either a Buy American 
statute compliant or TAA-compliant item.

11. Out of Scope

    Comment: Some commenters requested that DHS revise the regulatory 
text to encourage contracting officers to seek out domestic 
manufacturers, including small businesses, when acquiring covered PPE.
    Response: These suggestions are beyond the scope of this rule. This 
rule is about implementing the MPAA. The MPAA does not include 
provisions regarding small business participation and the NPRM did not 
propose requirements involving small business participation.

III. Final Rule

    This final rule amends the HSAR at 48 CFR part 3025, Foreign 
Acquisition, and at 48 CFR part 3052, Solicitation Provisions and 
Contract Clauses. The rule adds a new HSAR subpart, an HSAR clause, and 
an HSAR provision which codifies how DHS complies with the Act. These 
changes also codify the requirements from Deviation 23-01. Each of 
these amendments are described in detail in the following paragraphs.
    This final rule adds new subpart 3025.71, Make PPE in America Act 
Restrictions on Foreign Acquisition, to the HSAR, codifying the 
restrictions in Deviation 23-01 applicable to the acquisition of 
certain PPE consistent with the Act. These restrictions include minimum 
time periods for contract duration, content requirements for certain 
PPE, alternatives to domestic production when conforming PPE is not 
available, and exceptions when conforming PPE is either nonavailable or 
cannot be procured at U.S. market prices (or in other words, only 
available at an unreasonable cost).
    This rule also codifies the definitions of terms used in Deviation 
23-01.\16\ These terms are ``component,'' ``domestic personal 
protective equipment,'' ``foreign-assembled domestic personal 
protective equipment,'' ``foreign personal protective equipment,'' 
``personal protective equipment,'' and ``United States.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \16\ See 48 CFR 3025.7101.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Additionally, this rule applies to all types of actions, orders, 
option exercises, and contracts awarded and administered by DHS. It 
requires contracting officers to purchase domestic PPE except for when 
certain exceptions, specified in HSAR 3025.7102-2, apply and also 
requires that any contract for PPE has a base period of performance of 
at least two years, plus option periods.
    HSAR 3025.7102-2 codifies the conditions under which acquisitions 
of PPE, or component thereof, are excepted from the requirements of 
HSAR 3025.7102-1 (i.e., alternatives to domestic production, 
nonavailability, and unreasonable cost) consistent with Deviation 23-
01.
    This final rule further codifies the clauses and provisions that 
apply when an exception due to nonavailability or unreasonable cost is 
used, as listed in Deviation 23-01.\17\ Additionally, this final rule 
codifies HSAR 3025.7103, HSAR clause 3052.225-7X, Make PPE in America, 
and HSAR provision HSAR 3052.225-7Y, Make PPE in America Certificate. 
The final rule makes a technical edit to consistently use the term 
``DHS Chief Procurement Officer'' where applicable. Otherwise, DHS 
adopts the NPRM as final, amending 48 CFR part 3025, Foreign 
Acquisitions, and 48 CFR part 3052, Solicitation Provisions and 
Contract Clauses.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \17\ See 48 CFR 3025.7102-3.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

IV. Regulatory Analyses

A. Executive Orders 12866, 13563, and 14192

    Executive Orders 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and 13563 
(Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review) direct agencies to assess 
the costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives and, if 
regulation is necessary, to select regulatory approaches that maximize 
net benefits. Executive Order 13563 emphasizes the importance of 
quantifying both costs and benefits, of reducing costs, of harmonizing 
rules, and of promoting flexibility. Executive Order 14192 (Unleashing 
Prosperity Through Deregulation) directs agencies to significantly 
reduce the private expenditures required to comply with Federal 
regulations and provides that ``any new incremental costs associated 
with new regulations shall, to the extent permitted by law, be offset 
by the elimination of existing costs associated with at least 10 prior 
regulations.''
    The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has not designated this 
rule a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive 
Order 12866. Accordingly, OMB has not reviewed this regulatory action. 
This rule is not an Executive Order 14192 regulatory action because 
this rule is not significant under Executive Order 12866. See OMB 
Memorandum M-25-20, ``Guidance Implementing Section 3 of Executive 
Order 14192, titled `Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation''' 
(Mar. 26, 2025).
Need for the Rule
    This final rule codifies the requirements as set forth in the Act 
and Deviation 23-01. DHS is updating the Homeland Security Acquisition

[[Page 59072]]

Regulation (HSAR) to align with current DHS practice in Deviation 23-
01. This rule provides for consistency between the Act and the HSAR.
Benefits and Costs of the Final Rule
    The benefits and costs of a regulation are generally measured 
against a no-action baseline, which is a reasonable forecast of the way 
the world would look absent the regulatory action being assessed.\18\ 
As the final rule aligns the regulations with DHS current practice, it 
does not result in additional costs for the Federal Government. The 
rule codifies the requirement for contactors to submit a Make PPE in 
America Certificate, only in the situation when the contractor is 
proposing foreign-assembled domestic PPE. DHS already included this 
contractor requirement to certify compliance in Deviation 23-01. 
Because DHS contractors already comply with Deviation 23-01, they would 
not incur new costs due to this rule.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \18\ See OMB Circular A-4, p., 15 (September 17, 2003) 
(accessible at accessible at <a href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/CircularA-4.pdf/">https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/CircularA-4.pdf/</a>).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    However, Deviation 23-01, which is how DHS complies with the 
requirements of the Act, may cause DHS to incur additional costs in the 
form of higher prices for domestically produced PPE compared to 
foreign-produced PPE. Future DHS procurement price differences between 
domestic and foreign-sourced PPE are difficult to accurately estimate. 
External factors (outside of the Act's requirement) may influence 
prices. For example, U.S. Government investments in domestic PPE 
production could factor into domestic production costs and prices. 
There is uncertainty on foreign governments investment in foreign PPE 
production which would impact foreign prices. An analysis of PPE would 
have to be conducted by type of PPE, such as the domestic and foreign 
prices of masks, protective eyewear, or gloves. Further, DHS has 
specific requirements in certain procurements such as gloves (i.e., 
testing for interference with explosive equipment and protection 
against Fentanyl exposure) that would need to be considered in any 
price comparisons.\19\ Another factor that would be difficult to 
address in direct price comparisons is product differences. There are 
no internationally agreed upon guidelines or standards of what specific 
products make up PPE categories, complicating product comparisons.\20\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \19\ DHS, White Paper: Current State of Personal Protective 
Equipment Procurement by Make PPE in America Act Covered Agencies. 
3-4 (March 13, 2024).
    \20\ ``For example, KN95 respirator masks- China made analogues 
to domestically regulated N-95 respirators- are generally not 
authorized as medical PPE in the United States. KN95 are authorized 
in many countries abroad and received temporary (and limited) 
Emergency Use Authorization from the [U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration] FDA.'' FDA, Certain Filtering Facepiece Respirators 
from China May Not Provide Adequate Respiratory Protection--Letter 
to Health Care Providers, October 15, 2020, at <a href="https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/letters-health-care-providers/certain-filtering-facepiece-respirators-china-may-not-provide-adequate-respiratory-protection-letter">https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/letters-health-care-providers/certain-filtering-facepiece-respirators-china-may-not-provide-adequate-respiratory-protection-letter</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Consequently, due to the lack of specific data, complexity of 
various factors, and uncertainty of external price influences, DHS is 
not able to estimate the long-run additional DHS cost of an increased 
shift to domestic PPE procurements due to the requirements of the Act. 
Importantly, DHS has already complied with the requirements of the Act 
through Deviation 23-01 and subsequent contract changes.
    Congress recognized the need for the United States to have a 
robust, secure, and wholly domestic PPE supply chain to safeguard 
public health and national security.\21\ This final rule codifies the 
statutory requirements that support the sustainment of the U.S. PPE 
supply chain. This final rule would provide the clarification benefit 
of consistency and transparency for contractors and DHS contracting 
officers.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \21\ Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 1313.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

B. Regulatory Flexibility Act

    The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., as 
amended by the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 
1996, Public Law 104-121 (Mar. 29, 1996), requires Federal agencies 
engaged in rulemaking to consider the economic impacts of their rules 
on small entities. A small entity may be a small business (defined as 
any independently owned and operated business not dominant in its field 
that qualifies as a small business per the Small Business Act); a small 
not-for-profit organization; or a small governmental jurisdiction 
(locality with fewer than 50,000 people). This final rule will provide 
clarity and consistency between the HSAR and existing DHS practice as 
set forth in Deviation 23-01. Contractors currently provide the Make 
PPE in America Certificate in compliance with Deviation 23-01. The Make 
PPE in America Certificate is required only if the offeror is proposing 
foreign-assembled domestic PPE. DHS estimates the contractor burden 
based on experience from subject matter experts familiar with Deviation 
23-01. DHS estimates it will take a contractor 15 minutes to identify 
any foreign-assembled domestic PPE items it is offering and complete 
the Make PPE in America Certificate. DHS assumes an estimated hourly 
compensation rate of $57.95 for the time burden.\22\ The time burden 
cost per certificate would be $14.49 (15 minutes x $57.95).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \22\ The average hourly earnings are based upon the U.S. 
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics' website 
(<a href="http://www.bls.gov">www.bls.gov</a>). The wage rate category selected is for Business and 
Financial Operations Occupations (13-0000), May 2022. The rate is 
estimated to be $57.95 ($41.39 x 1.4), which includes the wage rate 
multiplier.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Based on the estimated cost of $14.49 per certificate, DHS assumes 
this cost would not be a significant economic impact on a small entity 
affected by the final rule. DHS also believes that contractors 
generally pass along the cost of complying with DHS contracting 
requirements to DHS. Therefore, DHS certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) 
that this final rule would not have a significant economic impact on a 
substantial number of small entities.

C. Paperwork Reduction Act

    The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA) (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) 
requires that DHS consider the impact of paperwork and other 
information collection burdens imposed on the public and, under the 
provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3507(d), obtain approval from the OMB for each 
collection of information it conducts, sponsors, or requires through 
regulations. This final rule contains information collection 
requirements. Accordingly, DHS is updating OMB No. 1600-0005, 
Solicitation of Proposal Information for Award of Public Contracts.
    The collection requirements for this final rule are nominal and 
based on the new provision, 3052.225-7Y, Make PPE in America 
Certificate.
Overview of Information Collection
    (1) Type of Information Collection: Modification to Existing 
Collection.
    (2) Title of the Form/Collection: Solicitation of Proposal 
Information for Award of Public Contracts.
    (3) Agency form number, if any, and the applicable component of DHS 
sponsoring the collection: No form; OCPO.
    (4) Affected public who will be asked or required to respond; as 
well as a brief abstract: The affected public is business or other for-
profit institutions. DHS needs the information required by provision 
3052.225-72 to assess contractor compliance with the Make PPE in 
America Act. Responses are required for respondents to obtain or retain 
benefits.

[[Page 59073]]

    (5) An estimate of the total number of respondents and the amount 
of time estimated for an average respondent to respond: The estimated 
number of respondents for reporting is 0.08. This number is nominal 
because a response to this provision is required only if the offeror is 
proposing foreign-assembled domestic PPE. Such response should be rare, 
because the offeror of such products is unlikely to receive an award, 
unless no offers for domestic PPE are received. In Fiscal Year (FY) 
2022, DHS awarded 8 contracts for domestic PPE. DHS estimates it will 
receive ten offers per solicitation. Using the number of contracts 
awarded in FY 2022, DHS estimates it received 80 offers. DHS estimates 
0.2 percent of offers, or 0.16 responses, will include foreign-
assembled domestic protective equipment. The average number of 
responses per respondent is two or 0.08 respondents. DHS estimates it 
will take each respondent 15 minutes to complete the certificate. These 
numbers are not unusual given that DHS awarded a mandatory for use, 
Departmentwide contract for domestic PPE in March of 2022 and the 
requirements of provision 3052.225-72 Make PPE in America Certificate 
were satisfied at the contract level. Standalone contracts are awarded 
only when the domestic PPE needed is not available under the 
Departmentwide contract.
    (6) An estimate of the total public burden (in hours) associated 
with the information collection: The total estimated annual hour burden 
associated with this collection is 0.033 hours or 2 minutes.
    (7) An estimate of the total public burden (in cost) associated 
with the information collection: The estimated total annual cost burden 
associated with this collection of information is $2.32.

D. National Environmental Policy Act

    DHS and its components analyze regulatory actions to determine 
whether the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
seq., applies to them and, if so, what degree of analysis is required. 
DHS Directive 023-01 Rev. 01 ``Implementing the National Environmental 
Policy Act'' (Dir. 023-01 Rev. 01) and Instruction Manual 023-01-001-01 
Rev. 01 (Instruction Manual) \23\ establish the policies and procedures 
that DHS and its components use to comply with NEPA.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \23\ The Instruction Manual, which contains DHS's procedures for 
implementing NEPA, was issued on November 6, 2014, and is available 
at <a href="https://www.dhs.gov/ocrso/eed/epb/nepa">https://www.dhs.gov/ocrso/eed/epb/nepa</a> (last modified July 29, 
2025).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    NEPA allows Federal agencies to establish, in their NEPA 
implementing procedures, categories of actions (``categorical 
exclusions'') that experience has shown do not, individually or 
cumulatively, have a significant effect on the human environment and, 
therefore, do not require an environmental assessment or environmental 
impact statement. See 42 U.S.C. 4336(a)(2), 4336e(1). The Instruction 
Manual, Appendix A lists the DHS Categorical Exclusions.\24\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \24\ See Appendix A, Table 1.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Under DHS NEPA implementing procedures, for an action to be 
categorically excluded, it must satisfy each of the following three 
conditions: (1) the entire action clearly fits within one or more of 
the categorical exclusions; (2) the action is not a piece of a larger 
action; and (3) no extraordinary circumstances exist that create the 
potential for a significant environmental effect.\25\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \25\ Instruction Manual 023-01 at V.B(2)(a)-(c).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The final rule amends the HSAR to better clarify how DHS complies 
with the Make PPE in America Act, and codifies Deviation 23-01 that is 
currently in effect. DHS is not aware of any significant impact on the 
environment, or any change in environmental effect that will result 
from this final rule.
    DHS has reviewed this final rule and finds that no significant 
impact on the environment, or any change in environmental effect will 
result from the amendments being promulgated in this final rule. 
Accordingly, DHS finds that the promulgation of this final rule clearly 
fits within categorical exclusion A3, established in the DHS's NEPA 
implementing procedures as an administrative change with no change in 
environmental effect, is not part of a larger Federal action, and does 
not present extraordinary circumstances that create the potential for a 
significant environmental effect. Therefore, this final rule is 
categorically excluded from further NEPA review.

List of Subjects in 48 CFR Parts 3025 and 3052

    Government procurement.

    Accordingly, for the reasons set forth in the preamble, DHS amends 
48 CFR parts 3025 and 3052 as follows:

PART 3025--FOREIGN ACQUISITION

0
1. The authority citation for part 3025 is revised to read as follows:

    Authority:  5 U.S.C. 301-302, 41 U.S.C. 1303, 41 U.S.C. 1707, 41 
U.S.C. 1702, 41 U.S.C. 8301 note, 48 CFR part 1, subpart 1.3, DHS 
Delegation No. 00701, Revision No. 03.2, paragraphs (III)(H), and 
DHS Delegation No. 00702, Revision No. 01.2, paragraphs (III)(M).

0
2. Add subpart 3025.71 to read as follows:

Subpart 3025.71--Make PPE in America Act Restrictions on Foreign 
Acquisition

Sec.
3025.7100 Scope of subpart.
3025.7101 Definitions.
3025.7102 Restrictions on certain personal protective equipment.
3025.7102-1 Restrictions.
3025.7102-2 Exceptions.
3025.7102-3 Specific application of the Buy American statute and 
Trade Agreements Act.
3025.7103 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.


3025.7100  Scope of subpart.

    This subpart contains restrictions on the acquisition of certain 
personal protective equipment (PPE) imposed by the Make PPE in America 
Act (Pub. L. 117-58), and they apply to all types of actions, orders, 
option exercises, and contracts entered into on or after February 14, 
2022.


3025.7101  Definitions.

    As used in this subpart--
    (a) Component, as applied to an item described in 3025.7102-1, 
means an article, material, or supply incorporated directly into an 
item of personal protective equipment.
    (b) Domestic personal protective equipment, as applied to an item 
described in 3025.7102-1, means personal protective equipment, 
including the materials and components thereof, that is grown, 
reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States.
    (c) Foreign-assembled domestic personal protective equipment, as 
applied to an item described in 3025.7102-2, means personal protective 
equipment that is assembled outside the United States containing only 
materials and components that are grown, reprocessed, reused, or 
produced in the United States.
    (d) Foreign personal protective equipment means personal protective 
equipment other than domestic personal protective equipment or foreign-
assembled domestic personal protective equipment.
    (e) Personal protective equipment, as applied to an item described 
in 3025.7102-1, means surgical masks, respirator masks and powered air 
purifying respirators and required filters, face shields and protective 
eyewear, gloves, disposable and reusable surgical and isolation gowns, 
head and foot coverings, and other gear

[[Page 59074]]

or clothing used to protect an individual from the transmission of 
disease.
    (f) United States, as applied to an item described in 3025.7102-1, 
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the possessions of 
the United States.


3025.7102  Restrictions on certain personal protective equipment.


3025.7102-1  Restrictions.

    The following restrictions implement section 70953 of the Make PPE 
in America Act, and they apply to all types of actions, orders, option 
exercises, and contracts.
    (a) Except as provided in 3025.7102-2, contracting officers shall 
purchase domestic personal protective equipment.
    (b) Any contract for personal protective equipment shall have a 
base period of performance of at least 2 years, plus all option 
periods.


3025.7102-2  Exceptions.

    Acquisitions in the following categories are not subject to the 
restrictions in 3025.7102-1:
    (a) Acquisitions of an item of personal protective equipment, or 
component thereof, otherwise covered by 3025.7102-1 when the DHS Chief 
Procurement Officer:
    (1) Maximizes sources for foreign-assembled domestic personal 
protective equipment; and
    (2) Certifies every 120 days that it is necessary to procure 
personal protective equipment under alternative procedures to respond 
to the immediate needs of a public health emergency.
    (b) Acquisitions of an item of personal protective equipment, or 
component thereof, including those described in paragraph (a) of this 
section--
    (1) That is, or that includes, a material listed in FAR 25.104 as 
one for which a nonavailability determination has been made; or
    (2) As to which the DHS Chief Procurement Officer determines that a 
sufficient quantity of a satisfactory quality that is grown, 
reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States cannot be 
procured as, and when, needed at United States market prices; and
    (3) The DHS Chief Procurement Officer certifies every 120 days that 
it is necessary to procure personal protective equipment to respond to 
the immediate needs of a public health emergency.
    (c) When either of the exceptions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this 
section are used:
    (1) Only the DHS Chief Procurement Officer is authorized to make 
the certification in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(3) of this section or 
the nonavailability or unreasonable cost determination in paragraph (b) 
of this section.
    (2) The supporting documentation for the DHS Chief Procurement 
Officer shall be prepared by the DHS Component(s) and:
    (i) For the certification in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(3) of this 
section:
    (A) Include a written justification documenting the immediate 
public health emergency requiring use of alternative procedures; and
    (B) Be concurred on by the Head of the Contracting Activity before 
submission to the DHS Chief Procurement Officer.
    (ii) For the nonavailability or unreasonable cost determination in 
paragraph (b) of this section:
    (A) Include a written justification documenting why a 
nonavailability or unreasonable cost exception is required; and
    (B) Be concurred on by the Head of the Contracting Activity before 
submission to the DHS Chief Procurement Officer.


3025.7102-3  Specific application of the Buy American statute and Trade 
Agreements Act.

    In the event the DHS Chief Procurement Officer determines neither 
domestic personal protective equipment nor foreign-assembled domestic 
personal protective equipment is available due to nonavailability or 
unreasonable cost, contracting officers shall apply one of the 
following:
    (a) The clause at FAR 52.225-1, Buy American--Supplies, and the 
provision at FAR 52.225-2, Buy American Certificate;
    (b) The clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American--Free Trade 
Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, and the provision at FAR 52.225-4, Buy 
American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate; or
    (c) The clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, and the provision 
at FAR 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate, as applicable.


3025.7103  Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

    (a) Insert the clause at 3052.225-71, Make PPE in America, in 
solicitations and contracts, regardless of dollar value, when procuring 
any item covered under 3025.7102-1(a).
    (b) Insert the provision at 3052.225-72, Make PPE in America 
Certificate, in solicitations containing the clause at 3052.225-71.

PART 3052--SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES

0
3. The authority citation for part 3052 is revised to read as follows:

    Authority:  5 U.S.C. 301-302, 41 U.S.C. 1303, 41 U.S.C. 1707, 41 
U.S.C. 1702, 41 U.S.C. 8301 note, 48 CFR part 1, subpart 1.3, DHS 
Delegation No. 00701, Revision No. 03.2, paragraphs (III)(H), and 
DHS Delegation No. 00702, Revision No. 01.2, paragraphs (III)(M).

0
4. Add section 3052.225-71 to read as follows:


3052.225-71  Make PPE in America.

    As prescribed in 3025.7103(a), insert the following clause:

Make PPE in America (Oct. 2026)

    (a) Definitions. As used in this clause--
    Component, as applied to an item described in paragraph (b) of 
this clause, means an article, material, or supply incorporated 
directly into personal protective equipment.
    Domestic personal protective equipment, as applied to an item 
described in paragraph (b) of this clause, means personal protective 
equipment, including the materials and components thereof, that is 
grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States.
    Foreign-assembled domestic personal protective equipment, as 
applied to an item described in paragraph (b) of this clause, means 
personal protective equipment that is assembled outside the United 
States containing only materials and components that are grown, 
reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States.
    Foreign personal protective equipment means personal protective 
equipment other than domestic personal protective equipment or 
foreign-assembled domestic personal protective equipment.
    Personal protective equipment, as applied to an item described 
in paragraph (b) of this clause, means surgical masks, respirator 
masks and powered air purifying respirators and required filters, 
face shields and protective eyewear, gloves, disposable and reusable 
surgical and isolation gowns, head and foot coverings, and other 
gear or clothing used to protect an individual from the transmission 
of disease.
    United States, as applied to an item described in paragraph (b) 
of this clause, means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and 
the possessions of the United States.
    (b) The Contractor shall deliver only domestic personal 
protective equipment except to the extent that it specified delivery 
of foreign-assembled domestic personal protective equipment in the 
provision of the solicitation entitled ``Make PPE in America 
Certificate.''
    (c) Order of Precedence. In the event the Department of Homeland 
Security determines neither domestic personal protective equipment 
nor foreign-assembled domestic personal protective equipment are 
available due to nonavailability or

[[Page 59075]]

unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall comply with the clauses at 
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1 Buy American--Supplies 
or 52.225-3 Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act 
and the provisions at FAR 52.225-2 Buy American Certificate or 
52.225-4 Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act 
Certificate or the clause at FAR 52.225-5 Trade Agreements and the 
provision at FAR 52.225-6 Trade Agreements Certificate, as 
applicable.
(End of clause)

0
5. Add section 3052.225-72 to read as follows:


3052.225-72  Make PPE in America Certificate.

    As prescribed in 3025.7103(b), insert the following provision:

Make PPE in America Certificate (Oct. 2026)

    (a)(1) The Offeror certifies that each item of personal 
protective equipment, except those listed in paragraph (b) of this 
provision, is domestic personal protective equipment.
    (2) The Offeror shall list foreign-assembled domestic personal 
protective equipment items.
    (3) The terms ``domestic personal protective equipment,'' 
``foreign-assembled domestic personal protective equipment,'' 
``foreign personal protective equipment,'' and ``personal protective 
equipment,'' are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled 
``Make PPE in America.''
    (b) Foreign-assembled Domestic Personal Protective Equipment:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Line item No.                     Country of assembly
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         ...............................
                                         ...............................
                                         ...............................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[List as Necessary]

    (c) In the event the Department of Homeland Security determines 
both domestic personal protective equipment and foreign-assembled 
domestic personal protective equipment are not available due to 
nonavailability or unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall comply 
with the clauses at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1 
Buy American--Supplies or 52.225-3 Buy American--Free Trade 
Agreements--Israeli Trade Act and the provisions at FAR 52.225-2 Buy 
American Certificate or 52.225-4 Buy American--Free Trade 
Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate or the clause at FAR 
52.225-5 Trade Agreements and the provision at FAR 52.225-6 Trade 
Agreements Certificate, as applicable. The contracting officer will 
notify offerors if a nonavailability or unreasonable cost 
determination is made.
(End of Provision)

Paul Courtney,
Chief Procurement Officer, U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
[FR Doc. 2026-19207 Filed 9-17-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 9112-FE-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>