<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 164 (Wednesday, August 26, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 164 (Wednesday, August 26, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 54966-54992]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-17238]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

POSTAL SERVICE

39 CFR Part 111


Ballot Mail for Federal Elections

AGENCY: Postal Service.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Postal Service is amending the Mailing Standards of the 
United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual, regarding the 
transmission of mail-in or absentee ballots for federal elections 
pursuant to its rulemaking authority.

DATES: Effective August 21, 2026.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Keith Weidner, (202) 268-2950 or Drew 
Mitchum, (202) 779-2766.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. Background

    On March 31, 2026, the President issued Executive Order 14399, 
Ensuring Citizenship Verification and Integrity in Federal Elections, 
91 FR 17125 (2026) (``Executive Order'' or ``Order''). The Executive 
Order stresses the federal government's ``unavoidable duty under 
Article II of the Constitution of the United States to enforce 
[f]ederal law, which includes preventing violations of [f]ederal 
criminal law and maintaining public confidence in election outcomes.'' 
Id. To these ends, the Order points out the need for additional 
measures concerning the use of the mail in order to facilitate 
enforcement of federal law, reduce the risk of fraud, and help protect 
the integrity of federal elections. Id. Following the issuance of the 
Order, the Postal Service engaged in an interagency review process 
through the Office of Management and Budget (``OMB''), and subsequently 
issued a proposed rule regarding the preparation of ballot mail for 
federal elections to facilitate the enforcement of federal law and to 
implement best practices for Postal Service operations regarding ballot 
mail. Ballot Mail for Federal Elections, 91 FR 32915 (June 2, 2026).
    Although exempt by 39 U.S.C. 410(a) from the notice and comment 
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act (``APA'') (5 U.S.C. 
553) regarding proposed rulemaking, the Postal Service invited public 
comment on the proposed revisions to Mailing Standards of the United 
States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual (``DMM''), incorporated by 
reference in the Code of Federal Regulations, set forth in the proposed 
rule. The comment period closed on July 2, 2026.
    To ensure the faithful execution of federal law in connection with 
federal elections, this rule has an immediate effective date. Delaying 
the effective date would jeopardize implementation of this rule in time 
for the 2026 general election, which will be held on November 3, 2026. 
Given injunctions currently in place in State of California v. Trump, 
No. 26-cv-11581 (D. Mass. June 25, 2026), and League of Women Voters of 
Massachusetts v. Trump, No. 26-cv-11549 (D. Mass. Aug. 11, 2026), the 
Postal Service will not take actions to implement the rule specifically 
for the 2026 election unless and until the government obtains relief 
from those injunctions. If the government obtains timely relief from 
the injunctions, implementation immediately thereafter will provide 
election officials as much time as possible before the next election to 
comply with the rule's preparation standards for Federal Ballot Mail 
envelopes, and to prepare to submit data to the Federal Ballot Mail 
Portal (``Portal''), before the mail-in and absentee ballots subject to 
this rule aremailed (which generally occurs in September or thereafter, 
as determined by state law). The Portal will become active (along with 
the verification process that relies on Portal data) at the time of the 
publication of the system of records (``SOR'') governing the Portal. 
Publication of the SOR will occur on or after August 17, 2026 (pending 
the Postal Service's separate consideration of the comments on that SOR 
proposal). Finally, the terms ``mail-in ballot'' and ``absentee 
ballot'' are synonymous and interchangeable for the purposes of this 
rule. These terms include any ballot sent through the U.S. Mail, 
irrespective of state law terminology.

II. Overview of Comments

    The Postal Service received more than 200,000 responses during the 
comment period. These comments consisted primarily of form letters that 
appeared to be drawn from templates; brief statements of general 
support for or opposition to the proposed rule; and individualized 
messages from concerned citizens. Additionally, organizational 
commenters individually and jointly submitted over 250 letters. This 
group of commenters included postal unions; federal, state, local, and 
tribal officials, including state attorneys general, governors, and 
members of Congress; election officials, including secretaries of state 
and county election administrators; voting rights organizations; and a 
range of other issue-based and political advocacy groups.
    As discussed below, some opposition to the proposed rule reflected 
misunderstandings about how the rule will operate in practice; to these 
misunderstandings the Postal Service offers explanations in the 
``Operation of the Final Rule'' section below.

A. Comments in Support of the Rule

    Supportive comments emphasized several themes. Some discussed voter 
fraud as a significant problem and lauded the proposed rule for helping 
to restore voters' confidence in election integrity. One letter, 
submitted by an Alabama-led coalition of thirteen state attorneys 
general, contended that the proposed rule would facilitate efforts to 
combat voter fraud while shoring up public confidence in ways that 
states could not achieve on their own

[[Page 54967]]

initiative. That coalition further emphasized that states retain full 
control of ballots until they are transferred to the Postal Service, 
and that the proposed rule would help mitigate weaknesses in the chain 
of custody of Federal Ballot Mail.
    Supporting commenters also appraised the proposed rule as enhancing 
election security by improving the visibility of Federal Ballot Mail in 
the mailstream; approved of the ballot envelope design standards it 
would normalize; emphasized the benefits of creating reconcilable data 
(through the state-specific Mail-In and Absentee Participation Lists 
(``Lists'')) that offers a neutral administrative check which 
strengthens confidence in elections; and predicted that the rule would 
reduce uncertainty as to whether ballots have reached their intended 
destination.
    Supporting commenters further evaluated the actions that state and 
local election officials may need to take to comply with the proposed 
rule's standards. The Alabama-led coalition of state attorneys general, 
for instance, acknowledged that the proposal would impose certain 
burdens but characterized them as ``plainly justified by the security 
and accountability benefits of the proposed rule,'' concluding that the 
rule ``addresses real vulnerabilities inherent in mail-in voting, 
responds to legitimate and widespread public concerns about federal 
election integrity, and equips States with tools that strengthen their 
own oversight capabilities without displacing their authority.''
    Finally, many supporting commenters affirmed the Postal Service's 
statutory and constitutional authority to enact the rule. Some cited 
Article II, Section 3 of the U.S. Constitution (requiring the President 
to ``take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed'') as legal grounds 
for the rule, while also endorsing the analysis of authorities set out 
in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. There, the Postal Service cited 
authority to regulate the mail as embodied in 39 U.S.C. 401 and 404 and 
described the proposed regulations as setting forth ``mailpiece 
preparation and data reporting standards that can provide information 
regarding the sending of ballots through the mail that would be 
available for use by law enforcement, and are consistent with title 39 
of the U.S. Code.'' The Postal Service addresses the legal authority to 
promulgate the final rule at greater length in the ``Legal Authority'' 
section below.
    Finally, some commenters urged the Postal Service to adopt 
additional measures, including citizenship-verification requirements, 
as part of a final rule.

B. Comments in Opposition to the Rule

    Comments received in opposition to the proposed rule generally 
urged the Postal Service to withdraw the rule or to delay its 
implementation until after the November 3, 2026, general election. 
Several commenters argued that the rule should be withdrawn in light of 
an injunction entered by the United States District Court for the 
District of Massachusetts (California v. Trump, 2026 WL 1826490 (D. 
Mass. June 25, 2026)) and a now-stayed injunction issued by the United 
States District Court for the District of Columbia, in litigation 
arising out of a 2021 settlement with the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People (``NAACP'') in the United States District 
Court for the District of Columbia (NAACP v. U.S. Postal Serv., 2026 WL 
1893762 (D.D.C. July 1, 2026)).
    Concerns raised by opposing commenters largely fell into three 
broad categories, each of which is addressed in greater detail below:
    <bullet> The alleged legal deficiencies of the proposed rule;
    <bullet> Concerns regarding the purported practical implementation 
challenges;
    <bullet> Concerns about the proposed rule's alleged broader 
political and social impact.
    With respect to legal objections, opposing commenters argued that 
the Postal Service lacks legal authority to adopt or implement the 
proposed rule. Commenters further argued that, even if the Postal 
Service possesses the requisite authority, adoption of the proposed 
rule would be arbitrary and capricious. These legal objections are 
addressed at length in the ``Legal Authority'' and ``Impact of the 
Final Rule'' sections below.
    With respect to the substance of the proposed rule, opposing 
commenters frequently focused on the Portal, the acceptance (or 
verification) provisions, and the fact that the Postal Service would 
refuse to accept certain ballots for federal elections that states 
tender without satisfying the data-entry obligations that the rule 
would impose. Although these provisions were uniformly opposed by 
commenters not otherwise supportive of the rule, some expressed greater 
openness to the envelope-design requirements, asserting that such 
requirements would fall more squarely within the Postal Service's 
sphere of authority. Thus, in the opinion of some commenters, the 
envelope design provisions for Outbound and Return Federal Ballot Mail 
in DMM 705.24.3 could be retained while the verification, Portal, and 
optional notice provisions should be removed. In a similar vein, at 
least one commenter signaled conditional support for the proposed rule 
so long as all mandatory provisions were made voluntary. Comments 
raising specific implementation concerns--arising from asserted costs 
and burdens associated with implementation before the 2026 general 
election, as well as those costs and burdens that would purportedly be 
incurred on an ongoing basis; the potential risk of administrative or 
data errors leading to ballot rejection; and the Postal Service's 
perceived lack of readiness--are addressed at length in the sections 
below.
    A number of commenters urged the Postal Service to publish a system 
of records notice (``SORN'') under the Privacy Act and raised questions 
addressable through the SORN, including whether personally identifiable 
information will be collected and stored, how long such information 
will be retained, which entities and personnel will have access to it, 
whether it will be shared with other federal entities or contractors, 
what cybersecurity safeguards will be implemented, and what remedies 
will be available in the event of improper disclosure. The Postal 
Service published a SORN on July 17, 2026. 91 FR 44880. The public was 
invited to submit comments relevant to the SORN and related Privacy Act 
considerations in that proceeding.

C. Comments Outside the Scope of This Rulemaking

    The Postal Service also received a significant number of comments 
that fall outside the scope of this proceeding.
    First, many commenters described voting by mail as an effective 
means of exercising their franchise due to their individual 
circumstances. Other commenters, by contrast, criticized mail-in voting 
as a general practice and urged the Postal Service to cease delivering 
ballot mail altogether. The Postal Service takes no position on 
whether, or the extent to which, states should utilize the mail as part 
of the administration of their elections. Indeed, the Postal Service 
does not advocate for or against voting by mail. Instead, the Postal 
Service collects, processes, transports, and delivers mail and 
packages, and remains fully committed to transporting all types of 
mail, including Federal Ballot Mail that conforms with the Postal 
Service's mail preparation, data reporting, acceptance, and entry 
standards. As discussed

[[Page 54968]]

further below, under the proposed rule, and as retained in the final 
rule, the states retain full authority to decide whether to utilize the 
U.S. Mail as part of their electoral systems, and to determine who 
should be eligible to vote by mail.
    Second, comments that comprehensively address state and local 
election administration or the Postal Service's election mail 
procedures fall outside the scope of this proceeding. By way of 
example, one commenter raised concerns regarding the accuracy of voter 
registration rolls, recounted their experience of observing purported 
irregularities during the 2020 election cycle, and urged the Postal 
Service to undertake a comprehensive review of all mail-in ballot 
procedures. Comments in this vein, which concern the entire system of 
election mail administration, rather than the DMM provisions set forth 
in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, will not be addressed below.
    Third, numerous comments raised concerns influenced by partisan 
political speculation. This included conjecture about the underlying 
intent of the Order and the impact it may have on voter turnout or 
election outcomes. Such remarks are speculative and exceed the scope of 
this proceeding. In any event, as explained further below, this rule 
does not--nor is it intended to--facilitate any form of voter 
suppression, affect election outcomes, or target particular 
demographics, districts, or states.
    Fourth, a number of comments raised issues that fall outside both 
the scope of this proceeding and the Postal Service's authority 
generally, extending the rule's logic beyond election mail and/or 
invoking executive branch entities not involved in Postal Service 
operations. Some, for example, proposed that ballots be accepted only 
if they arrive by election day; demanded that mail-in voting be 
discontinued; urged Congress to enact the Safeguard American Voter 
Eligibility (SAVE) Act; and weighed in on sections of Executive Order 
14399 that do not concern the Postal Service. Comments addressing 
election deadlines, the policy of mail-in voting, other election 
administration changes, pending legislation, and other entities' law 
enforcement priorities are not relevant to this proceeding.
    Fifth, some commenters raised broad issues of service performance 
and operational decision-making. Such issues include which facilities 
process particular mail classes; postmarking practices; service 
performance complaints; the scope of Postal Police Officers' authority; 
operational changes or service commitments for ballots mailed to and 
from military and overseas voters; and collateral consequences to the 
Postal Service's brand reputation or revenue if a final rule is issued. 
Such comments are beyond the scope of this proceeding and will not be 
addressed below.
    Sixth, the Postal Service received numerous comments addressing 
matters unrelated to election mail or to the matters discussed in this 
proceeding. These included comments expressing personal opinions of the 
President; remarks concerning nominees to the Postal Service Board of 
Governors and criticisms of the Board's leadership; objections to 
postage and stamp prices; requests for congressional action; appraisals 
of judges who have issued decisions concerning election mail; 
appraisals of the current and former Postmaster General; comments aimed 
at postal management and staff; comments on postal reform and 
privatization; comments on voter intimidation; comments regarding the 
role of public election auditors and observers; opinions about the 
impact of the Supreme Court's recent decisions dealing with the Voting 
Rights Act; comments regarding the Federal Election Commission's 
Clearinghouse on Election Administration; and feedback on other 
administrative proceedings, including a Department of Justice (``DOJ'') 
rulemaking concerning the review of state bar complaints and 
allegations against DOJ attorneys and a separate Postal Service 
rulemaking concerning the mailability of firearms. Such comments are 
also beyond the scope of this proceeding and will not be addressed 
below.

D. Conclusion

    The Postal Service has carefully considered all comments received. 
The summary above is intended to broadly cover the issues they raise. 
Substantive legal objections, operational issues, requests for 
additional study, suggested revisions to the proposed rule, and 
additional topics related to the proposed rule are addressed in the 
dedicated subsections that follow.

III. Legal Authority

    Numerous commenters asserted, on varying grounds, that the Postal 
Service lacks the legal authority to implement the proposed rule. This 
section recites the specific arguments advanced by commenters, followed 
in each case by a response affirming the legal basis of the DMM 
changes.

A. General Remarks

    Ballot mail presents unique considerations, given the role it plays 
in the electoral process. This role has also grown in importance in 
recent years, as many states have expanded eligibility for mail-in 
voting, with some states moving to universal mail-in voting. The number 
of voters using the mail to receive and cast their ballots has 
commensurately increased. The Postal Service's policies regarding 
election mail in general, and ballot mail in particular, have evolved 
to reflect these unique considerations. From an operational standpoint, 
the Postal Service deploys special practices on a nationwide basis for 
the processing and delivery of ballot mail to ensure that such mail is 
prioritized across the postal network and timely delivered. These 
practices include the use of extraordinary measures during the period 
surrounding federal general elections to accelerate the delivery of 
return ballot mail beyond the Postal Service's typical operations when 
its employees are able to identify a mailpiece as a ballot. In 
recognition of the importance of ballot mail, the Postal Service 
regularly issues nationwide guidance documents in federal election 
cycles, has dedicated points of contact to coordinate with election 
officials, and has created a dedicated election mail group tasked with 
overseeing the Postal Service's election mail procedures nationwide. 
The Postal Service also amended DMM 703.8.0 in 2022 to add its 
longstanding best-practices recommendations concerning ballot mail to 
facilitate efficient handling and prompt delivery and to 
improvemailpiece visibility. Some jurisdictions have adopted those 
recommendations.
    The use of the U.S. Mail to vote also implicates federal interests 
regarding whether the postal system is being used in a manner that is 
consistent with federal law, including those laws governing who is 
allowed to vote in federal elections. Executive Order 14399 emphasizes 
the constitutional obligation of the Executive Branch to take care that 
these laws are faithfully executed, and discusses the importance of 
applying additional measures concerning the use of the mail to vote in 
federal elections, in order to facilitate enforcement of federal law, 
reduce the risk of fraud, and help protect the integrity of federal 
elections--a point subsequently echoed by some comments supporting the 
rule. It is fully appropriate for the Postal Service, as an 
establishment of the Executive Branch, to take actions deemed necessary 
to ensure the faithful

[[Page 54969]]

execution of federal law and enhance the efficiency of postal 
operations. As discussed below, the Postal Service has the statutory 
and constitutional authority to take such actions.

B. Election Integrity

    The Postal Service received many comments expressing differing 
views on the incidence of voter fraud and its impact on election 
integrity. Some commenters, in voicing support for the proposed rule, 
portrayed voter fraud as a significant problem, while commenters 
opposing the rule argued that it is not a problem, and disputed the 
Postal Service's legal authority and rationale to impose preparation 
requirements for Outbound Federal Ballot Mail.
    While the Postal Service acknowledges the range of disagreement on 
this point, the incidence of voter fraud does not impact the proposed 
rule's legal grounding. As discussed in the Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking and in further detail below, the rule will afford 
significantly enhanced visibility into the sending of Federal Ballot 
Mail, and this will in turn facilitate law enforcement efforts by 
enabling law enforcement to better detect potential issues meriting 
further investigation. Such enhanced visibility will help identify 
potential issues that would have otherwise gone undetected; at the very 
least, it will provide increased assurance that any potential issues 
are more capable of being effectively identified and investigated. Cf. 
Crawford v. Marion Cnty. Election Bd., 553 U.S. 181, 196-97 (2008) 
(noting the propriety of taking steps designed to detect and deter 
potential electoral fraud, which also has the benefit of ``safeguarding 
voter confidence'' in elections). Whether or not voter fraud is common 
or uncommon, the Postal Service has the legal authority to take the 
measures in this rule to facilitate enforcement of federal law, reduce 
the risk of fraud, and help protect the integrity of federal elections.

C. The Constitution's Elections Clause and the 10th Amendment

    Numerous commenters argued that the Postal Service, through the 
proposed DMM provisions, would supplant the states' authority to 
administer elections. Some of these comments characterized the proposed 
rule as inconsistent with the Elections Clause of the Constitution, 
Article I, Section 4, Clause 1 (vesting authority over the ``manner of 
elections'' with the States and Congress), and with the 10th Amendment 
(reserving all non-enumerated powers to the states). According to many 
of these comments, the proposed rule would allegedly recast the Postal 
Service as an ``auditor of state voter rolls and an arbiter of ballot 
validity,'' a ``gatekeeper of who can vote by mail,'' or a ``checkpoint 
for voting.'' In a similar vein, commenters asserted that the proposed 
rule contravenes the separation of powers by arrogating powers that lie 
with Congress. Finally, at least one commenter argued that, by 
requiring that states expend resources to comply with the standards 
mandated by the Postal Service, the proposed rule would 
unconstitutionally commandeer State resources.
    These comments are fundamentally erroneous. The rule does not 
recast the Postal Service as an election administrator, nor dictate the 
manner of elections in the states. On the contrary, it sets forth 
mailpiece design and data reporting standards tied to the use of the 
mail. States maintain complete control over their own voter 
registration rolls, deciding who within their jurisdiction is eligible 
to vote by mail. States also retain complete autonomy to determine the 
extent to which they utilize the postal system as an aspect of their 
elections. The rule is plainly consistent with the Elections Clause, 
the 10th Amendment, and the separation of powers, as well as the Postal 
Service's statutory and regulatory authority.
    Some commenters acknowledged the Postal Service's authority to 
impose general standards governing the dispatch of election mail, 
including ballot mail. For instance, election mail must today conform 
with the DMM provisions that apply to the class of mail in which it is 
entered, and users of such mail must pay the required postage. The 
requirement to follow federal mail regulations if states choose to use 
the federal postal system, then, cannot inherently violate the 
Elections Clause, nor would it in any way ``commandeer'' state 
resources. The Postal Service is not constitutionally obliged to defer 
to a given state's Outbound Federal Ballot Mail design preferences or 
accept a given state's decision not to use barcodes. On the contrary, 
establishing a standardized set of mailpiece design requirements for 
Outbound Federal Ballot Mail--requirements that, being tailored to 
enable more efficient handling of Outbound Federal Ballot Mail, improve 
such mail's visibility in the mailstream, and Postal Service 
operations--lies within the Postal Service's authority. These 
requirements do not amount to election administration, nor do they 
usurp state resources; rather, they regulate the use of the mail to 
improve operational efficiency and support the faithful execution of 
federal law. In this regard, as a general matter, states do not have to 
use the U.S. mail to conduct their elections, and the Postal Service 
can take steps to ensure that if states do use the mail, that use 
occurs in a manner that achieves these legitimate purposes.
    Similarly, the requirement to report mail piece-level data into the 
Portal is not tantamount to election administration. States retain full 
control over who within their jurisdictions is (or is not) eligible to 
vote by mail in federal elections; they would, moreover, determine who 
is enrolled in their respective Mail-In and Absentee Participation 
Lists. DMM 705.24.4 only requires that states provide to the Postal 
Service certain information inscribed on the Outbound and Return 
Federal Ballot Mail envelopes that they mail to voters, prior to or at 
the time of the outbound mailing. This information, which necessarily 
lies in the states' possession, would not be subject to revision by the 
Postal Service. Eligible voters will therefore be listed by and at the 
discretion of election officials, and the Postal Service will not 
second-guess the states' submissions. State election officials will 
thus retain full control over who is permitted to vote in federal 
elections in their state by U.S. mail.
    Finally, the verification process aims only to ensure that states 
adhere to the mailpiece design and data reporting standards. By 
checking the outbound barcode, the Postal Service will be able to 
verify that the state or political subdivision thereof has satisfied 
the Portal data entry requirements (e.g., certifying that Outbound and 
Return Federal Ballot Mail envelopes have been submitted for Mailpiece 
Design Analyst (``MDA'') review and that feedback has been received, 
all required data fields have been entered). Again, the Postal Service 
will exercise no discretion or authority over whether an individual 
should or should not be on the list a state provides.
    This rule does not involve or authorize inspection of a mail-in 
ballot's contents, review of individual voter's eligibility, or 
auditing of state voter rolls. It instead focuses exclusively on 
exterior mailpiece criteria and barcode scan data. As DMM 704.24.6 
explains, ``[t]his rule relates only to the use of the U.S. Mail,'' 
leaving states ``fully responsible for the contents of [their] Mail-In 
and Absentee Participation List.'' 91 FR 32929. Specifically, DMM 
705.24.1.b limits enrollment in the Portal to users authorized by a 
state's chief election official; accordingly, and as detailed in DMM 
705.24.4.3, the Postal Service will compile and return to each state 
only the information that

[[Page 54970]]

the state itself has submitted, thus preserving the states' control 
over who is (and is not) able to vote by mail. It further bears 
emphasizing that the verification process delineated in DMM 705.24.5 
would not involve voter eligibility determinations in any way; it will 
not entail scrutiny into, or any attempt to evaluate, individual 
voters. Finally, as plainly stated in DMM 705.24.5.2, ``Postal Service 
personnel are not authorized to open mail sealed against inspection.'' 
In short, the rule adds a layer of security and accountability while 
leaving the administration of elections firmly in the hands of the 
states.

D. First Amendment and Privacy Act Concerns

    Some commenters raised First Amendment concerns, noting that the 
Supreme Court has long recognized that voting is a protected form of 
political participation and that compelled disclosure of political 
participation can chill the exercise of First Amendment freedoms. 
Though some commenters correctly acknowledged that the Postal Service 
does not propose to disclose voting choices, numerous commenters 
nevertheless alleged that the rule would compel the creation and 
maintenance of records identifying citizens who engage in mail-in or 
absentee voting; speculated that such records may be subject to future 
disclosure, misuse, breach, or political targeting; and advised against 
collecting personally identifiable election-participation information 
absent a compelling need and robust safeguards.
    Other commenters invoked the Privacy Act, and 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(7) 
in particular, as a statutory bar on the maintenance of records 
``describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the 
First Amendment unless expressly authorized by statute or by the 
individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to 
and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity[.]''.
    These First Amendment concerns are misplaced. First, the Postal 
Service reiterates that it will not collect or record party affiliation 
and will not inspect ballot contents. Postal Service personnel are not 
authorized to open mail sealed against inspection. Instead, through the 
Portal the Postal Service will maintain data of the sort that is 
routinely generated for mail from the exterior of the mailpiece, 
including addressing and barcode information.
    The rule's enactment will not entail ``compelled disclosure of 
political participation.'' Supreme Court cases on ``compelled 
disclosure'' in the electoral context address compelled public 
disclosure of personally identifiable election participation 
information, such as a public records law making the signatures on a 
referendum petition publicly available upon request. John Doe No. 1 v. 
Reed, 561 U.S. 186, 192 (2010). The rule, by contrast, neither directs 
nor contemplates the public disclosure of Mail-In and Absentee 
Participation Lists or the underlying Portal data.
    The Postal Service recognizes the importance of ensuring that the 
Lists are protected from ``future disclosure, misuse, breach, or 
political targeting.'' The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking indicated that 
``steps necessary for the creation of a new SORN in accordance with the 
Privacy Act'' would be initiated. 91 FR 32971. On July 17, 2026, the 
SORN was published in the Federal Register. The SORN provides details 
regarding retention periods, access, disclosure, notification, and 
contest procedures under 39 CFR 266.5. 91 FR 44880. The notice 
specifies the categories of records covered, a five-year retention 
period, encryption of online data transmissions, and badge- and log-on-
controlled access limited to personnel whose duties require it. The 
Postal Service can therefore confirm that no data will be collected 
through the Portal until a system of record (SOR) is in effect, and 
that records will be disclosed and maintained consistently with any 
final SOR, which does not allow public disclosure of the Lists.
    The proposed rule is also consistent with 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(7), 
which applies only to records revealing ``how any individual exercises 
rights guaranteed by the First Amendment.'' Courts have interpreted 
this ``how'' to mean gathering and recording the ``content'' of 
expressive activity under the First Amendment. E.g., Reuber v. United 
States, 829 F.2d 133, 143 (D.C. Cir. 1987) (holding that a letter 
reprimanding an employee for privately published essays did not depict 
``how'' he had exercised First Amendment rights under the Privacy Act 
because it did not discuss ``the content'' of his privately published 
essays and made ``only vague allusions to the manner in which he 
expressed his views'').
    This section of the Privacy Act could only be invoked here if the 
Postal Service were gathering and maintaining records indicating the 
``content'' of an individual's exercise of their First Amendment rights 
(i.e., the content of an individual's ballot, and thus the candidate 
for which an individual voted). That is not the type of information 
being collected under the rule. The state-specific Mail-In and Absentee 
Participation Lists indicate whether a state planned to mail a blank 
ballot to any given individual. This information does not describe 
``the content'' of expressive activity under the First Amendment, but 
simply indicates the specific means by which an individual may have 
chosen to receive or return their ballot.
    Furthermore, Section 552a(e)(7)'s prohibitions are operative 
``unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law 
enforcement activity''--and as stated above, this rule is enacted to 
assist in the faithful execution and enforcement of federal law. See 
Jabara v. Webster, 691 F.2d 272, 280 (6th Cir. 1982) (Section 
552a(e)(7) ``does not bar the maintenance of records describing how a 
person exercises First Amendment rights if there is a direct nexus to 
an authorized criminal, civil or administrative law enforcement 
activity''). The applicability of Section 552a(e)(7)'s law enforcement 
exception to DMM 705.24.4 is further confirmed by the DOJ Office of 
Legal Counsel's recent memorandum opinion, ``Authority to Obtain and 
Share Statewide Voter Roll Data.'' 50 Op. OLC _(May 12, 2026), Slip. 
Op. at 25-29 (explaining that Section 552a(e)(7)'s law enforcement 
exception permits retention of statewide voter-registration lists when 
a SORN is published).

E. Fourth Amendment Concerns

    Some commenters argued that the proposed rule would violate the 
Fourth Amendment by allegedly:
    <bullet> Allowing unreasonable search of voter information encoded 
on the outside of Federal Ballot Mail envelopes;
    <bullet> Permitting unreasonable seizure of Federal Ballot Mail 
encoded with voter information; and
    <bullet> Requiring voter information to be encoded on the outside 
of Federal Ballot Mail envelopes and allowing suspicionless searches 
(also known as ``administrative'' or ``special needs'' searches) of 
that information for general law-enforcement purposes that fall outside 
of the Postal Service's lawful mission of mail delivery.
    The Postal Service notes that courts have long held that there is 
no reasonable expectation of privacy in information displayed on the 
exterior of a mailpiece because it is exposed to anyone's view, 
including postal employees who must rely upon it in the performance of 
their duties. E.g., United States v. Choate, 576 F.2d 165, 175-77 (9th 
Cir. 1978). Thus, the Postal Service's creation of ``mail covers''--
images of the outside cover of envelopes or packages in its custody--
for general

[[Page 54971]]

law enforcement purposes do not constitute a ``search'' under the 
Fourth Amendment. See generally 39 CFR 233.3. Likewise, the 
government's use of voter information displayed or encoded on Federal 
Ballot Mail envelopes would not constitute a Fourth Amendment 
``search''--administrative or otherwise--because it invades no 
reasonable expectation of privacy.

F. Due Process Concerns

    Some commenters argued that once a state provides for absentee 
voting, the state has enabled a qualified individual to exercise their 
fundamental right to vote in a way that was previously unavailable; and 
that, as a result, the state must afford appropriate due process 
protections, including notice and a hearing, before rejecting an 
absentee ballot. Commenters analogized this principle (which applies 
via the Fourteenth Amendment to the states) to the Fifth Amendment, 
which, in their view, requires the federal government to provide 
adequate due process before restricting voters' use of otherwise 
permissible voting methods.
    The Postal Service reiterates that the rule adopted herein does not 
determine any individual's eligibility to vote and thus does not raise 
the specter of a due process violation. The verification procedures set 
forth in DMM 705.24.5 are instead designed to ensure that states 
sending Federal Ballot Mail have transmitted to the Federal Ballot Mail 
Portal the information required for each state-specific Mail-In and 
Absentee Participation List. Such information lies with the states, 
which already fully control who is, and who is not, included on the 
Lists; voters themselves cannot provide all of that information (e.g., 
unique Intelligent Mail barcode (``IMb'') on the outbound and return 
envelope), and the Postal Service cannot correct or amend it. While the 
verification process may identify missing data or other errors between 
Outbound Federal Ballot mailings and the Portal data, the states 
themselves control the information that they transmit (as they do 
already, even in the absence of this rule), and any procedural 
protections attaching to such information must accordingly be provided 
by the states. Ultimately, with or without this rule, states are 
responsible for managing their own voter rolls, and deciding who is or 
is not eligible to vote by mail.

G. Equal Protection Concerns

    Some commenters raised concerns regarding the guarantee of equal 
protection under the Fourteenth Amendment (and subsequently 
incorporated into the Fifth Amendment by Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U.S. 
497 (1954)). For example, at least one commenter asserted that the 
exemption for ballots covered by the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens 
Absentee Voting Act (``UOCAVA'') affords unequal legal protection (on 
the mistaken grounds that UOCAVA covers military personnel but not 
overseas civilians). Moreover, at least one commenter argued that by 
creating the possibility of noncompliance, the rule's envelope-design 
standards and verification process might restrict some voters' ability 
to vote by mail, thus withholding equal protection under the law.
    However, another commenter reasoned that uniform national 
standards--far from raising equal-protection issues--resolve these 
constitutional concerns. Relying on Jones v. U.S. Postal Service, 488 
F. Supp. 3d 103 (S.D.N.Y. 2020), the commenter explained that Fifth 
Amendment equal-protection claims were likely to succeed where there 
were no standards or uniformity for handling election mail; this 
inconsistency can result in intrastate and interstate disparities in 
citizens' voting power. The proposed rule, the commenter argued, 
eliminates such concerns by setting a single, nationwide standard for 
Federal Ballot Mail.
    The Postal Service agrees with this commenter that the rule 
safeguards, rather than abrogates, equal protection. The rule is 
neutral on its face and uniform in application: DMM 705.24.3 applies 
objective requirements to all Outbound and Return Federal Ballot Mail 
envelopes without distinction, and the data entry and verification 
processes delineated by DMM 705.24.4 and 705.24.5, respectively, 
likewise apply to all states equally. Furthermore, as noted, the rule 
promotes multiple rational objectives through nationwide standards and 
implementation, including the enhancement of Federal Ballot Mail 
visibility in the mailstream, Postal Service operations, and the 
facilitation of law enforcement objectives. Cf. United States v. 
Salerno, 481 U.S. 739, 734 (1987) (holding that facial challenges to 
statutes ``must establish that no set of circumstances exists under 
which the Act would be valid''); Reno v. Flores, 507 U.S. 292, 301 
(1993) (extending the Salerno standard to federal agency regulations). 
The rule's exemptions also rest on a legitimate, nondiscriminatory 
basis. Congress, for example, created in UOCAVA a separate federal 
statutory scheme with its own requirements, including different timing 
constraints and deadlines. McDonald v. Board of Election Comm'rs, 394 
U.S. 802, 809 (1969) (allowing exceptions within an absentee ballot 
voting scheme provided ``some rational relationship to a legitimate 
state end''). Furthermore, as indicated, UOCAVA coverage does in fact 
extend to non-military U.S. citizens who reside outside the United 
States. 52 U.S.C. 20310(5)(B)-(C).

H. Statutory Grounding in Title 39

    Multiple commenters argued that, as a general matter, the Postal 
Service lacks the statutory authority to implement the proposed rule. 
Along similar lines, some commenters alleged specifically that, because 
no provisions in title 39 explicitly contemplate mandatory standards 
regarding Federal Ballot Mail, title 39 impliedly bars the Postal 
Service from implementing such standards.
    These statutory arguments are unavailing. As explained in the 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 39 U.S.C. 401(2) authorizes the Postal 
Service ``to adopt, amend, and repeal such rules and regulations, not 
inconsistent with this title, as may be necessary in the execution of 
its functions under this title and such other functions as may be 
assigned to the Postal Service under any provisions of law outside of 
this title,'' and further grants the Postal Service ``all other powers 
incidental, necessary, or appropriate to the carrying on of its 
functions or the exercise of its specific powers.'' Id. Sec.  401(10). 
Furthermore, Section 404 grants the Postal Service specific powers, 
including the power ``to provide for the collection, handling, 
transportation, delivery, forwarding, returning, and holding of mail, 
and for the disposition of undeliverable mail.'' Id. Sec.  404(a)(1).
    Setting preparation and data-reporting standards for a defined 
category of mail falls squarely within that statutory authority. 
Supreme Court precedent confirms the Postal Service's expansive 
rulemaking authority. As noted by one commenter, in U.S. Postal Service 
v. Council of Greenburgh, the Court explained that under 39 U.S.C. 401 
``the Postal Service is broadly empowered to adopt rules and 
regulations.'' 453 U.S. 114, 122 (1981). This commenter further argued 
that the Postal Service has long managed election mail as a distinct 
category under its authority. In Rider v. United States, the commenter 
explained, the Claims Court recognized that the Postal Service issues 
``detailed regulations and management instructions concerning the 
various classes of mail and types of postal services in its Domestic 
Mail Manual'' pursuant to Section 404(a), and that its Postal 
Operations Manual establishes ``special operating procedures'' to 
ensure that election and campaign mailings ``are processed properly,

[[Page 54972]]

delivered with equitable care and attention and that proper records are 
maintained.'' 7 Cl. Ct. 770 (1985). Courts have recognized the Postal 
Service's broad regulatory authority in other contexts as well. See 
Grover City v. U.S. Postal Serv., 391 F. Supp. 982, 986 (C.D. Cal.1975) 
(finding postal regulations setting mail receptacle standards to be 
valid exercises of Sec.  404(a)(1) delivery power and Sec.  401(2) 
rulemaking authority); Rockville Reminder v. U.S. Postal Serv., 480 
F.2d 4, 7 (2nd Cir. 1973) (upholding postal regulations prohibiting 
mailbox installations facilitating private delivery of advertising 
circulars under the Postal Service's broad rulemaking authority); Egger 
v. U.S. Postal Serv., 436 F. Supp. 138, 142 (W.D. Va. 1977) (upholding 
the Postal Service's interpretation of its regulations governing mail 
addressed to people at school).
    The Postal Service has the statutory authority to set forth mail 
preparation, acceptance, and entry standards that are necessary to 
achieve the functions assigned to it by law--functions that include 
investigation into the potential misuse of the mail and coordination 
with other federal law enforcement entities. See 39 U.S.C. 401(2); cf. 
18 U.S.C. 3061(b) (authorizing the Postal Service to investigate crimes 
regarding ``the use of the mails'' and other appropriate crimes as 
determined by agreement with the Attorney General); 52 U.S.C. 10307, 
20511. The rule sets forth tailored requirements regarding the use of 
the mail--the design of Federal Ballot Mail envelopes and the provision 
of mailpiece-level data concerning such ballot mailings--to help ensure 
the faithful execution of federal law; and the information yielded by 
these requirements would be available for use by law enforcement. 
Additionally, the rule would implement the Postal Service's 
longstanding best practices for ballot mail, thereby advancing 
execution of a key Postal Service function: processing and delivery of 
the Nation's mail. Contrary to commenters' arguments, achieving such 
purposes is within the scope of the Postal Service's authority to take 
``necessary'' action to regulate the use of the mail and achieve its 
assigned functions.
    There is also no basis to conclude that the Postal Service's broad 
statutory authority regarding the postal system encompasses all types 
of mail except ballot mail, and specifically Federal Ballot Mail. On 
the contrary, the Postal Service has acted pursuant to its existing 
authority to take many actions regarding ballot mail, reflective of the 
unique considerations raised by such mail, including by establishing 
special operational procedures and issuing best practice 
recommendations. While the Postal Service is now taking additional 
action to make some of these recommendations mandatory, and to add a 
requirement that states provide mailpiece-level detail about their 
mailings, such additional steps equally fall within the Postal 
Service's authority to execute on functions as assigned.

I. Grounding in Law Enforcement Statutes

    Multiple commenters contested the state-specific Mail-In and 
Absentee Participation Lists' grounding in law enforcement objectives, 
on the theory that the Lists, and the purposes to which they will 
allegedly be put, exceed the Postal Service's authority to investigate 
crimes involving election fraud. In general, these comments assert that 
the criminal statutes cited by the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking either 
have nothing to do with voting or are related to voting but are not 
enforceable by the Postal Service. Specific arguments include:
    <bullet> The U.S. Code does not confer on the Postal Service 
authority to enforce election statutes. Commenters asserted that 52 
U.S.C. 10307 and 20511 do not expressly name the Postal Service, and as 
such cannot be taken to confer enforcement or investigative authority 
on the Postal Service with respect to voter intimidation and fraudulent 
registration or voting. Conversely, 39 U.S.C. 404(a)(6) confers on the 
Postal Service the power ``to investigate postal offenses and civil 
matters relating to the Postal Service,'' not election law per se.
    <bullet> The investigatory and enforcement powers conferred by 
statute on Postal Inspectors are limited. Some commenters averred that 
18 U.S.C. 3061(b) grants only limited law enforcement powers to Postal 
Inspectors, which are confined to ``the enforcement of laws regarding 
property in the custody of the Postal Service, property of the Postal 
Service, the use of the mails, and other postal offenses,'' and to any 
offenses subject to interagency agreement with the Attorney General. 
This grant of authority, some asserted, does not authorize the Postal 
Service to collect data on voters. Similarly, the regulations in 39 CFR 
233.1(b) do not expressly grant Postal Inspectors authority to 
administer elections, determine voter eligibility, maintain voter 
registration databases, or conduct election fraud investigations 
unrelated to postal offenses.
    <bullet> The proposed rule lacks a factual predicate. To initiate 
an investigation, the Postal Service requires either direct, visible 
evidence of a crime or reasonable grounds to suspect that a crime is or 
has been committed. Some commenters characterized voter fraud, 
including through use of the mail, as rare. Commenters contended that 
the proposed rule nevertheless assumes that every mail-in voter may 
cast a fraudulent vote and must be placed under surveillance.
    <bullet> Lack of a clear statement conferring investigative or 
enforcement authority. Commenters argued that if Congress had intended 
to deputize the Postal Service as an adjunct of federal election law 
enforcement, it would have said so clearly.
    Each of the above arguments is unpersuasive. The proposed rule 
establishes mailpiece preparation and data reporting standards that 
will significantly enhance the visibility of Federal Ballot Mail. The 
information generated by the implementation of those standards would be 
available for use by appropriately authorized law enforcement entities 
to help ensure the faithful execution of federal law. The determination 
of whether to investigate, refer, charge, or prosecute any matter 
relating to illegal voting, voter fraud or voter intimidation rests, 
and will continue to rest, with the entities to which Congress has 
assigned such functions. Moreover, as noted above, the rule does not 
dictate the administration of elections, the determination of voter 
eligibility, or the maintenance of voter registration databases--all of 
which is controlled by the states-nor does the rule authorize the 
Postal Service to conduct investigations unrelated to postal offenses.
    Concerning the proposed rule's factual predicate (or alleged lack 
thereof), claims regarding the empirical incidence of voter fraud do 
not, as explained above, affect the Postal Service's authority to adopt 
these regulations. The Postal Service further emphasizes that, under 
the rule, it will not surveil mail-in or absentee voters. Under the 
rule's plain terms, information generated at acceptance is embedded in 
exterior mailpiece indicia and barcode scan data; Postal Service 
personnel are not authorized to open mail sealed against inspection; 
and no provision in DMM 705.24 authorizes review of any ballot's 
contents.
    Concerning the implied clear statement rule discerned by some 
commenters, the Postal Service does not purport to discover 
``transformative power'' in a ``long-extant'' statute. Rather, the 
envelope design, automation, barcoding and design review standards set 
forth by DMM

[[Page 54973]]

705.24.3 are similar to mail preparation requirements routinely applied 
across other mail categories. The rule, therefore, does not introduce 
new and unsettled ``major questions''--a point explained in greater 
depth below.

J. The Major Questions Doctrine

    Some commenters asserted that the proposed rule would violate the 
``major questions doctrine,'' which applies to agency actions 
purporting to ``discover in a long-extant statute an unheralded power 
representing a transformative expansion in its regulatory authority.'' 
West Virginia v. EPA, 597 U.S. 697, 724 (2022). Such comments theorized 
that as the right to vote is a fundamental political right, and as the 
Postal Service has no authority to adopt rules regulating voting in 
federal elections without express congressional authorization, the 
proposed rule would derive from its stated sources of statutory 
authority just such ``transformative'' powers.
    As an initial matter, it bears repeating that this rule does not 
regulate the right or eligibility to vote, voter registration, or the 
manner by which states administer elections. States will retain full 
autonomy to decide whether (and to what extent) they utilize the U.S. 
Mail as part of their electoral systems and who can use ballot mail to 
cast a vote. The rule instead imposes modest data and mail preparation 
requirements on Federal Ballot Mail envelopes. The preparation 
requirements have for years been issued as best-practice guidance--and 
are substantively similar to the standards already employed to varying 
extents by some election officials. And the data standards require that 
states provide information regarding the exterior of Federal Ballot 
Mail envelopes that they will already have available as part of their 
ballot mailings. The verification procedures simply help to ensure 
these standards have been met prior to accepting an Outbound Federal 
Ballot mailing. Furthermore, the Postal Service is authorized to 
regulate certain mail preparation requirements in furtherance of 
federal law enforcement and to advance its ability to efficiently 
handle the mail. On its face, then, the rule does not represent any 
``transformative expansion'' of regulatory authority, rendering the 
``major questions'' doctrine inapplicable.
    By way of further explanation, major questions arise when agencies 
claim to ``discover in a long-extant statute an unheralded power 
representing a transformative expansion in its regulatory authority.'' 
West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 724. Per West Virginia, ``the history and 
breadth of the authority that [the agency] has asserted'' distinguishes 
``extraordinary cases'' from ordinary ones. Such cases, which ``provide 
a reason to hesitate before concluding that Congress meant to confer 
such authority,'' typically involve an agency reaching beyond its area 
of expertise. Id. at 721; see also, e.g., Alabama Ass'n of Realtors v. 
HHS, 594 U.S. 758, 764 (2021) (the Centers for Disease Control 
regulating landlord-tenant relations); NFIB v. OSHA, 595 U.S. 109, 
(2022) (OSHA regulating a public health risk rather than workplace 
hazards). By contrast, in United States v. White, 97 F.4th 532, 540 
(7th Cir. 2024), the Seventh Circuit refused to apply the major 
questions doctrine in a case plainly lacking ``the hallmarks of the 
truly extraordinary cases,'' with no claim to ``unheralded power.'' In 
Nebraska v. Su, 121 F.4th 1 (9th Cir. 2024), the Ninth Circuit likewise 
held the major questions doctrine not to apply to a federal contractor 
minimum wage mandate which, following a history of presidents setting 
federal contractor rules, constituted neither a ``transformative'' nor 
an ``unheralded'' expansion of regulatory power. Id. at 14.
    Similar to the facts in White and Su, envelope preparation and data 
transmission and verification requirements of the sort contemplated 
here fall well short of an ``unheralded transformation'' of regulatory 
authority, lack ``the hallmarks of the truly extraordinary cases,'' and 
do not derive ``unheralded power'' from a ``long-extant statute.'' 
Indeed, the Postal Service has for years conditioned eligibility for 
certain rate levels on specific requirements, including barcodes and 
Mailer IDs, and has done so under the same statutory authority that 
underlies this rule. For example, the Full-Service Intelligent Mail 
program, described in DMM 705.23, offers automation discounts for 
commercial mailers in exchange for end-to-end mail tracking, electronic 
documentation, and address corrections. Participation in this program 
is mandatory for automation pricing. See 78 FR 23,137 (Apr. 18, 2013) 
(requiring the use of ``full-service'' Intelligent Mail ``to qualify 
for automation prices for postcards (First-Class Mail[supreg] only), 
letters, and flats when mailed using the following services: First-
Class Mail, Standard Mail and Periodicals; and for flats mailed at 
Bound Printed Matter prices''). If the Full-Service IMb regime is 
lawful under Sections 401 and 404, and it is, then the proposed rule 
cannot be said to effect an ``unheralded transformation'' of the 
regulatory prerogatives embedded in those statutes. Barcode, logo, 
automation-compatibility, design review, and electronic documentation 
conditions on defined mail categories constitute normal exercises of 
Postal Service authority; they have, moreover, in large part, long been 
included in the Postal Service's guidance to state Boards of Elections.
    Other major-questions cases focus on the ``economic and political 
significance'' of the authority at issue. Learning Res., Inc. v. Trump, 
607 U.S. 229, 246 (2026); see also, e.g., Biden v. Nebraska, 600 U.S. 
477, 502 (2023). Here, the economic significance of the rule is slight 
as compared to prior major-questions cases. See Learning Resources, 607 
U.S. at 246 (``could be worth $15 trillion''); Nebraska, 600 U.S. at 
502 (``between $496 billion and $519 billion''). And although actual 
changes to eligibility of voters to vote by mail might fairly be 
described as having political significance in some sense, this rule 
makes no such changes--it instead leaves voter-eligibility unchanged, 
requiring only certain modest envelope-design and data reporting 
standards, most of which have long been recommended by the Postal 
Service (and are voluntarily complied with by some jurisdictions 
already). It follows that the rule's incorporation of these practices 
does not raise any ``major question'' in the relevant sense.

K. Ultra Vires Creation of ``Nonmailable Matter'' Categories

    Some commenters noted that, in 39 U.S.C. 3001-3018, Congress 
specified categories of nonmailable materials with robust protections 
for all forms of mail not included. These commenters then argued that 
the rule effectively creates a new category of ``nonmailable matter,'' 
and thereby exceeds title 39's statutory scheme. On this basis, they 
contended that the rule and the verification process that it 
establishes is ultra vires.
    The rule does not create a new category of ``nonmailable matter'' 
into which Federal Ballot Mail as a class may generally fall. Rather, 
it is designed to ensure that Federal Ballot Mail envelopes meet 
certain preparation standards consistent with operational best 
practices and to condition acceptance on the provision of certain 
mailpiece-level data regarding those ballot envelopes--both of which 
support the execution of federal law. The rule does not prohibit 
federal ballots from being mailed altogether. While it is true that 
outbound mail-in ballots may be rejected from the mailstream as a 
consequence of noncompliance with the rule's

[[Page 54974]]

requirements, conditions on the acceptance of mailable matter are 
distinct from a determination that the matter is nonmailable. Moreover, 
compliance is straightforward: states need only provide information 
that is inscribed on the outside of Federal Ballot Mail envelopes, 
which will necessarily be in their possession. And ample resources are 
available to assist states with ballot mail envelope design, should 
such assistance be required. Compliance is verified by checking a 
single data point (IMb) on Outbound Federal Ballot Mail prior to 
acceptance. Although Outbound Federal Ballot mailings that fail the 
verification process may be temporarily rejected (and thus not 
permitted to enter the mailstream), any errors may be corrected and the 
mailpieces will thereafter be accepted for mailing.
    Rather than usurp Congress's authority to create new categories of 
``nonmailable matter,'' then, the Postal Service will impose mailpiece 
design and reporting standards to promote a rational and legitimate 
objective. As discussed below, to support this proposal, the Postal 
Service has reasonably determined that the mailpiece design 
requirements will help ensure proper handling, efficient processing, 
and timely delivery of such ballots to and from voters. See 90 FR at 
9843 (special conditions are appropriate for ``sensitive matter'' where 
such conditions ``will improve visibility and enhance handling 
methods''). Moreover, requiring the submission of a consolidated list 
of data concerning Federal Ballot Mail will assist law enforcement 
authorities in investigating crimes, including those involving the 
mails, as is consistent with the Postal Service's regulatory 
authorities. See 39 U.S.C. 401(b) (noting that the Postal Service can 
issue regulations to support functions assigned to it by law); 18 
U.S.C. 3061(b) (authorizing Postal Service to investigate crimes 
``regarding the use of the mails'' and other appropriate crimes as 
determined by agreement with the Attorney General).
    The Postal Service has previously relied on its authority under 39 
U.S.C. 401(2) to establish standards applicable to the acceptance and 
transmission of certain unique articles in furtherance of specific 
Postal Service operational interests where those articles raise special 
handling concerns, even where the articles are not dangerous. For 
example, cremated human and animal remains must be transported through 
specific types of USPS-provided boxes, and must be trackable via 
barcode. See Cremated Remains Packaging Requirements, 90 FR 9843 (Feb 
19, 2025) (implementing rules concerning the sending of cremated 
remains in specific types of USPS-provided boxes because the Postal 
Service understands such remains are ``sensitive matter and believes 
this will improve visibility and enhance handling methods throughout 
processing and transportation''). Similarly, replica explosives--which, 
although not dangerous, also require special handling to prevent 
operational disruptions--rather than being prohibited from the mail 
altogether must be mailed in certain ways, including in-person 
presentation to a retail counter and shipment via Registered Mail. 
Restricting the Mailing of Replica or Inert Explosives, 75 FR 282 (Jan. 
5, 2010) (noting that ``[t]his process will ensure that packages 
containing these items remain separate and easily identifiable during 
the mailing process'').
    Although ballot mail does not present precisely the same 
operational issues as cremated remains or replica explosives, it is 
unquestionably sensitive mail that raises unique operational 
considerations, as discussed above, and the Postal Service's authority 
under Section 401(2) is sufficiently expansive to encompass mail-entry 
conditions that further the effective execution of federal law and 
advance operational best practices. 39 U.S.C. 401(2) (noting that the 
Postal Service can issue regulations to support functions assigned to 
it by law). And incidental to the ability to impose standards in 
furtherance of such legitimate objectives is the ability to restrict 
mailings that do not meet those conditions from being accepted. Cf. id. 
Sec.  401(10) (Postal Service is granted ``incidental'' and 
``necessary'' powers to effectuate its responsibilities).

L. Consistency With 39 U.S.C. 101(a), 403(c), 404(e), 412, and 3661

    Commenters also argued that the proposed rule is inconsistent with 
various title 39 provisions, i.e., 39 U.S.C. 101(a), 403(c), 404(e), 
and 412. Other commenters averred that, prior to implementing these 
provisions, the Postal Service must request an advisory opinion from 
the Postal Regulatory Commission (``PRC'') under 39 U.S.C. 3661(b).
    The Postal Service disagrees with these assessments and addresses 
each of the above-cited title 39 provisions in turn.
    Section 101(a) establishes the Postal Service's foundational legal 
mandate to bind the nation together by providing reliable, efficient, 
and regular mail services to all communities. This obligation coexists 
with federal laws determining what is mailable, and the Postal Service 
abides by several statutory and regulatory directives regarding items 
that are not mailable, such as hazardous substances or explosives, or 
(as here) mailable with conditions imposed on preparation and data 
reporting. The existence of these directives does not negate the 
foundational legal mandate, and neither would Federal Ballot Mail 
envelope design standards and electronic documentation requirements 
that align with preexisting guidance. Furthermore, the Postal Service 
will continue to coordinate with state election officials and other 
officials regarding the transmittal of election mail and will maintain 
its longstanding election mail practices concerning the processing and 
delivery of ballots that enter the mailstream, including completed 
ballots mailed by voters to election officials. Indeed, consistent 
implementation of longstanding best practices recommendations will 
enhance, rather than hinder, these efforts.
    Section 403(c) mandates that, in providing services, ``the Postal 
Service shall not . . . make any undue or unreasonable discrimination 
among users of the mails, nor shall it grant any undue or unreasonable 
preferences to any such user.'' The PRC has noted that a violation of 
section 403(c) requires that (1) a user of the mail is receiving less 
favorable services than those provided to one or more other postal 
customers, (2) the user is similarly situated to those postal customers 
receiving more favorable service, and (3) there is no rational or 
legitimate basis for denying the user the more favorable service 
currently being provided to those similarly situated postal customers. 
PRC Order No. 718, Advisory Opinion (AO) on Service Changes Associated 
with First-Class Mail and Periodicals, July 20, 2021, Docket No. N2021-
1 at 170.
    The rule adopted herein sets forth neutral, uniform, and non-
discriminatory mailpiece design and data reporting standards that apply 
uniformly to all Federal Ballot Mail; thus, no ``preferential mail 
service'' is granted to one class of mail-in voters over another. Nor 
does the Postal Service violate Section 403(c) by requiring that 
Federal Ballot Mail meet these uniform standards, since given the 
unique considerations raised by such mail, Federal Ballot Mail is not 
``similarly situated'' to other types of mail. Indeed, the Postal 
Service already accords to election mail special operational treatment 
that is unavailable for other mail matter sent as First-Class Mail or 
Marketing Mail (the postal products typically used to send ballot

[[Page 54975]]

mail), and there is no basis to conclude that this special operational 
treatment constitutes undue discrimination against any users of the 
mail. Finally, Section 403(c) does not prohibit all distinctions among 
mail users, but only preferences that are ``undue'' or 
``unreasonable.'' Given the reasonable and legitimate objectives of the 
new standards, they are neither ``undue'' nor ``unreasonable''--even 
assuming arguendo that users of Federal Ballot Mail are ``similarly 
situated'' to users of other mail classes not covered by those 
standards, and even if those standards were conceded to somehow provide 
``less favorable'' terms (and they do not).
    The Postal Service also notes an issue flagged by several 
commenters: namely, that not all states can implement the rule's 
requirements with the same facility. By way of example, one comment 
noted that states with universal mail-in voting can more readily 
implement the new electronic documentation requirements than can states 
that do not mail absentee ballots unless requested by the voter--since 
the states in the former category can submit their entire list of 
enrollees in one session through the ballot portal, while states in the 
latter category must submit names in a more piecemeal fashion and only 
for those individuals requesting to receive a ballot through the mail. 
The Postal Service acknowledges the existing variations in state mail-
in voting practices, which may require different levels of process 
changes in order to comply with the rule; however, as noted, the rule 
itself sets forth neutral, uniform, and non-discriminatory mailpiece 
design and data reporting standards that apply equally to all Federal 
Ballot Mail. Compliance with these standards is straightforward and 
facilitated by existing resources (in some cases, free of charge). 
Furthermore, the nature and degree of states' prospective compliance 
efforts reflect the states' own policies, not the uniform standards 
adopted by the Postal Service. Such discrepancies, therefore, do not 
implicate Section 403(c).
    Section 404(e) generally prohibits the Postal Service from 
providing any new ``nonpostal service.'' The term ``service'' is not 
defined in title 39; the statute directed the PRC to review the 
``nonpostal services'' offered by the Postal Service as of January 1, 
2006, to determine whether each such service may continue. Id. Sec.  
404(e)(1). In carrying out that responsibility, the PRC defined the 
term ``service'' by regulation as ``any ongoing, commercial activity 
offered to the public for the purpose of financial gain.'' PRC Order 
154, Review of Nonpostal Services Under the Postal Accountability and 
Enhancement Act, Dec. 19, 2008, Docket No. MC2008-1 at 14. Because the 
creation and distribution of the Mail-in and Absentee Participation 
Lists are not ``commercial'' in nature, are not offered to the public, 
and are not offered ``for the purpose of financial gain,'' it would not 
qualify as a ``service'' for the purposes of Section 404(e).
    In any event, the creation of such lists is ``postal'' in nature, 
as it would involve ``delivery of letters, printed matter, or mailable 
packages, including acceptance, collection, sorting, transportation, or 
other functions ancillary thereto.'' 39 U.S.C. 102(5); see also id. 
Sec.  404(e)(1) (``the term `nonpostal service' means any service that 
is not a postal service defined under section 102(5)''). As noted 
above, these provisions set forth preparation and data standards that 
are tailored to the sending of ballots, and hence to the use of the 
mail.
    Section 412 provides in part that ``no officer or employee of the 
Postal Service shall make available to the public by any means or for 
any purpose any mailing or other list of names or addresses (past or 
present) of postal patrons or other persons.'' Some commenters 
theorized that unless state law shields postal-provided state-specific 
Mail-In and Absentee Participation Lists from disclosure, furnishing 
the state's chief election official with a list containing the names 
and addresses of those receiving a mail-in ballot likely violates this 
section. However, 39 U.S.C. 412(a) addresses lists of ``postal 
patrons'' or ``other persons'' compiled from postal data, and provides 
that the Postal Service shall not make such a postal list available to 
the public. The information on which the Mail-In and Absentee 
Participation Lists will be based is provided by the states themselves, 
and specifically the states' records of individuals to whom they (or 
their authorized election officials) plan to mail blank ballots. 
Because the lists involve information furnished by the states, 39 
U.S.C. 412(a) is not applicable; and in any event, the Postal Service 
will not make the lists public.
    Certain commenters nevertheless argued that the exception structure 
created by Section 412(a) (allowing disclosure of information ``as 
specifically provided by subsection (b) or other law'') in tandem with 
Section 412(b) (stating that ``[t]he Postal service shall provide to 
the Secretary of Commerce for use by the Bureau of the Census such 
address information, address-related information, and point of postal 
delivery information . . . as may be determined by the Secretary to be 
appropriate for any census or survey''), impliedly excludes the 
provision of Mail-In and Absentee Participation Lists to state 
officials. It therefore bears emphasizing that even if Section 412(a) 
were applicable to Mail-In and Absentee Participation Lists, it would 
not bar the provision of such lists to state elections officials.
    First and foremost, the provisions of these lists to state election 
officials does not constitute such disclosure of protected information 
``to the public.'' (Emphasis added.) Indeed, at least one court has 
interpreted disclosure to state law enforcement officials under 39 
U.S.C. 412 as not being tantamount to an impermissible disclosure to 
the public. See, e.g., People v. Pearson, 169 Cal. App. 3d 319, 323 
(1985) (holding that an individual ``had no reasonable expectation of 
privacy of his name and residential address given to the United States 
Postal Service when applying for a post office box''; noting that ``the 
information was not made available to the public'' under 39 U.S.C. 412 
``but rather to a law enforcement officer conducting an official 
investigation'').
    Second, Section 412(a) allows disclosure of information ``as 
specifically provided by subsection (b) or other law.'' (Emphasis 
added.) Postal Service regulations accordingly make clear that 
disclosure of information under Section 412 to the Secretary of 
Commerce for census-related purposes is not exclusive, countenancing 
such disclosure pursuant to certain contracts and interagency 
agreements, by written request and with the prior consent of the 
individuals, or as ``otherwise expressly authorized by federal law'' 
See 39 CFR 266.3(b)(3). As noted, the rule's Mail-In and Absentee 
Participation List disclosure provisions are adopted pursuant to 39 
U.S.C. 401 and 404 with the aim of supporting the faithful execution of 
federal law, and disclosure would occur in accordance with an 
established SOR.
    Third, federal legislation serves as both a precedent and a 
template for the sharing of information by the Postal Service with 
state election officials, in the context of voting. Specifically, the 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (``NVRA'') requires each state 
to manage a voter list maintenance program, and to make reasonable 
efforts to remove ineligible voters from voting rolls. 52 U.S.C. 
20507(a)(4). The NVRA includes a safe harbor provision, whereby a state 
can comply with its obligation to have a voter list maintenance program 
if ``change-of-address information supplied by the Postal Service 
through

[[Page 54976]]

its licensees is used to identify registrants whose addresses may have 
changed.'' 52 U.S.C. 20507(c)(1)(A). In 2018, the Supreme Court 
determined that it was ``undisputedly lawful'' for a state to utilize 
the Postal Service national change-of-address data for voter list 
maintenance purposes, as described in the NVRA. See Husted v. A. Philip 
Randolph Inst., 584 U.S. 756, 765 (2018) (citing 52 U.S.C. 20507(c)(1) 
and referring to the NVRA safe harbor as ``the Postal Service 
option''). As a general matter, then, the Postal Service's sharing of 
information with government officials is not exclusively limited to 
providing information to the Secretary of Commerce under Section 
412(b).
    Section 3661(b) provides that, when the Postal Service ``determines 
that there should be a change in the nature of postal services which 
will generally affect service on a nationwide or substantially 
nationwide basis,'' it must request an advisory opinion from the PRC 
before implementing the change. Some commenters reasoned that a change 
touching Federal Ballot Mail is a nationwide change in postal services 
within the meaning of Section 3661--one requiring pre-filing 
conferences with affected stakeholders and a formal request filed with 
the PRC at least 90 days before implementation (39 CFR 3020.110-
3020.112).
    As an initial matter, 39 CFR 3020.110-3020.112 are regulations 
binding the PRC, not the Postal Service. It is therefore incorrect to 
suggest (as some commenters did) that the Postal Service's adoption of 
this proposed rule would violate its own regulations.
    More importantly, the changes contemplated by the proposed rule do 
not trigger any obligations under Section 3661. As noted, the 
obligations attendant to Section 3661 arise in the event of ``a change 
in the nature of postal services which will generally affect service on 
a nationwide or substantially nationwide basis.'' Implementation of 
this rule does not constitute such a nationwide change in postal 
services. As the leading case on this issue explains, Section 3661 must 
be read within the context of the overall statutory scheme of title 39, 
which is designed to give the Postal Service ``broad authority in 
postal management'' to ensure that management is not ``unjustly 
hampered in its efforts to administer the Department in a businesslike 
way.'' Buchanan v. U.S. Postal Serv., 508 F.2d 259, 262-63 (5th Cir. 
1975). Section 3661(b) therefore comes into play only in limited 
circumstances, if (1) there is a change that has a ``meaningful impact 
on service,'' (2) the change is ``in the nature of postal service,'' 
and (3) the change affects service ``on a nationwide or substantially 
nationwide basis.'' Id. ``These three factors combine to demonstrate 
that Congress intended the safeguards of 3661 to apply only when 
changes of significance were contemplated.'' Id. at 263.
    As to the first Buchanan factor, a proposed change triggers the 
Section 3661 advisory opinion requirement when that change is 
``meaningful'' rather than ``minor'' from a quantitative perspective. 
See Buchanan, 508 F.2d at 262. Alterations that have a minimal effect 
on the general class of postal users therefore do not fall within the 
scope of Section 3661. Id. Here, the rule's requirements apply only to 
Federal Ballot Mail--a subset of election mail--and only in connection 
with federal general, special, or runoff elections (and not state 
elections or primary elections). To put this in context, in 2020 the 
Postal Service delivered roughly 400 million pieces of mail per day, 
and election mail in the 2020 general election accounted for only a 
small fraction of a percentage (roughly 0.1%) of that total mail 
volume. The standards being imposed on this exceedingly small subset of 
overall mail volume do not constitute a change of sufficient scale and 
scope to implicate Section 3661, but will instead have only a de 
minimis effect on the nature of postal services available to ordinary 
Postal Service users.
    Moreover, whether a proposed action constitutes a change in the 
``nature of postal services'' within the meaning of Section 3661(b) 
``involves a qualitative examination of the manner in which postal 
services available to the users will be altered.'' Buchanan, 508 F.2d 
at 263. In that regard, the PRC has held that ``in determining whether 
an initiative involves a change in the nature of postal services `[i]t 
is the experience of the individual postal consumer, the recipient of 
the complex of services provided by the Postal Service and the intended 
beneficiary of the policies incorporated by Sec.  3661, that must be 
assayed.' '' Pennsylvania v. DeJoy, 490 F. Supp. 3d 833, 885 (E.D. Pa. 
2020). Here, the changes contemplated by this rule do not directly 
affect the provision of postal services; rather, they encompass 
preparation and documentation requirements that are within the control 
of the states and, if adhered to, will not disturb the acceptance, 
processing, transmission or delivery of Federal Ballot Mail. The rule 
contemplates no changes to how the Postal Service processes and 
delivers election mail. In other words, as long as the rule's 
conditions are met, Outbound Federal Ballot Mail will enter the 
mailstream as usual, will transit as usual to its intended destination, 
and will in the usual manner be delivered: no discernible difference in 
the nature of postal services will arise. Indeed, as explained more 
fully below, the Postal Service will work closely with Boards of 
Elections to facilitate that very outcome. And, once the Outbound 
Federal Ballot Mail reaches a voter, the voter will experience no 
change. Voters may complete and return their ballot as they do now. It 
further bears noting that even if a state declined to submit the 
information required by the rule, the resulting acceptance refusal 
would not implicate Section 3661 any more than would a large-
scalemailer's decision to opt out of the mail system: the nationwide 
availability of postal services would remain unchanged.
    Finally, some commenters argued that it was unlawful for the 
President to issue an Executive Order directing action by the 
Postmaster General. To be sure, Executive Order 14399 was relevant to 
the Postal Service's consideration of this subject and began the 
deliberative process that is now resulting in this rule. While the 
Executive Order did not mandate a final rule, the Postal Service has 
determined that, to help achieve the goals articulated by the Order as 
necessary to faithfully execute federal law and also to advance the 
Postal Service's operational interests, it is appropriate to exercise 
its statutory authority to promulgate these provisions. Considerations 
of Postal Service independence are not relevant to this rulemaking.

M. 2021 Settlement With the NAACP

    In a 2021 settlement with the NAACP, the Postal Service agreed to 
take certain actions regarding mail-in voting in future federal 
elections, including prioritizing monitoring and timely delivery of 
election mail through 2028. Some commenters argued that the enactment 
of new mail preparation and electronic documentation requirements, 
particularly immediately, would deprioritize the timely delivery of 
election mail and, thus, violate that settlement agreement. In doing 
so, some commenters pointed to a recent judgment by the U.S. District 
Court for the District of Columbia granting NAACP's motion to enforce 
the settlement agreement, and enjoining the proposed rule's 
implementation. See NAACP v. U.S. Postal Serv., No. 1:20-cv-2295 
(D.D.C.).
    On July 17, 2026, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit 
stayed the

[[Page 54977]]

district court's injunction, concluding that ``even if adopted, that 
proposed rule likely would not violate . . . the parties' settlement 
agreement.'' NAACP v. U.S. Postal Serv., No. 26-5257 (D.C. Cir. July 
17, 2026). As the government has explained in that litigation, 
implementation of this proposed rule is not inconsistent with the terms 
of the settlement agreement: nothing in the rule adopted herein 
deprioritizes the timely delivery of election mail. To the contrary, 
implementation of these standards will, in fact, facilitate the Postal 
Service's efforts to deliver Federal Ballot Mail in a timely manner. 
Furthermore, the Postal Service will continue to work closely with 
stakeholders, and will deploy an array of special operational 
procedures (including so-called ``extraordinary measures'') to ensure 
the timely delivery of election mail, as it has done in prior election 
cycles.

N. NVRA, the Help America Vote Act and the Voting Rights Act

    Some commenters argued that NVRA (intended primarily to facilitate 
the registration of voters) and the Help America Vote Act (``HAVA'') 
(establishing a funding program to support state administration of 
elections) neither grant the President authority to identify the 
additional measures outlined in Executive Order 14399, nor authorize 
the Postal Service to adopt the rule as proposed. Commenters further 
argued that implementation of the proposed rule, and in particular the 
refusal to accept Outbound Federal Ballot Mail mailings that do not 
comply with the acceptance standards embodied in DMM 705.24, would 
violate the Voting Rights Act. As background, Congress enacted the 
Voting Rights Act to protect citizens' constitutional right to vote and 
to move freely across state lines, providing that no U.S. citizen shall 
``be denied the right to vote'' in federal elections ``because of the 
failure of such citizen to be physically present in such State or 
political subdivision at the time of such election,'' so long as the 
citizen has ``complied with the requirements prescribed by the law of 
such State or political subdivision'' concerning absentee ballots. 52 
U.S.C. 10502. The enforcement provisions of the Voting Rights Act, id. 
Sec.  10307(a), further establish that ``[n]o person acting under color 
of law shall fail or refuse to permit any person to vote who is 
entitled to vote under any provision of chapters 103 to 107 of this 
title or is otherwise qualified to vote[.]'' In these commenters' view, 
the rule as proposed would violate these statutes by adding a new 
enrollment requirement as a necessary precondition to the delivery of 
absentee ballots. Other commenters argued that the Election Assistance 
Commission (``EAC''), not the Postal Service, is the federal entity 
tasked to act as a national clearinghouse and resource for the 
compilation of information with respect to administration of Federal 
elections; if the EAC cannot impose any requirement on any state or 
local unit of government, the Postal Service cannot do so through its 
proposed rule either.
    As discussed above, under the rule, states retain full control over 
how to utilize the mail in their electoral systems, including by 
determining who is registered to vote and who is eligible to receive 
and send a mail-in ballot. The rule requires only that Federal Ballot 
Mail envelopes meet certain mail preparation requirements and that 
states provide mailpiece-level data regarding their Outbound and Return 
Federal Ballot mailings. As such, this rule simply regulates the use of 
the mail, and does not interfere with or supplant the schemes 
established under NVRA, HAVA, or the Voting Rights Act. The Postal 
Service's rule complements, rather than replaces, these statutory 
responsibilities by supporting the accurate distribution of ballots 
after states have determined who is eligible to receive them. 
Similarly, the Postal Service is not usurping the authority vested in 
the EAC. This rule concerns the mail, not election administration; 
voting systems and other election administration tasks remain squarely 
within EAC's scope. The Postal Service will continue (as before) to 
provide change of address information to state and local officials; and 
state and local officials will continue (as before) to maintain their 
official voter registration lists. Mail-In and Absentee Participation 
Lists will be based entirely on data in the possession of, and provided 
by, the states, and the Postal Service will not change the content of 
those lists. In this regard, it bears repeating that the Portal is not 
in any way a federal voting database; instead, it establishes a 
mechanism whereby states can provide data, which is fully within their 
possession and control, regarding Federal Ballot mailings.

O. The Paperwork Reduction Act

    Some commenters faulted the proposed rule for its alleged failure 
to address the obligations under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 
3501 et seq., which requires that federal agencies obtain approval from 
OMB before imposing a new information collection requirement on 
persons, including state governments.
    The Postal Service notes that it is outside the Paperwork Reduction 
Act's scope. See Kuzma v. U.S. Postal Serv., 798 F.2d 29, 32 (2d Cir. 
1986); Shane v. Buck, 658 F. Supp. 908, 915 (D. Utah 1985), aff'd, 817 
F.2d 87 (10th Cir. 1987).

P. Administrative Procedure Act Requirements

    Some commenters took issue with the length of the notice and 
comment period, with some alleging that the time allotted for comments 
was insufficient under the APA, and others remarking that for a rule of 
such scope and consequence, a 60-day comment period would be more 
fitting and appropriate.
    Although the Postal Service is part of the executive branch, it is 
not subject to many of the laws and guidance that govern the rulemaking 
processes used by other executive branch entities--including the APA 
(except in proceedings concerning mailability, which as explained above 
and in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the instant proceeding is 
not). 39 U.S.C. 410(a), 3001(m). The Postal Service also notes that the 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking prompted more than 200,000 comments 
covering a wide range of topics and opinions. There is thus no 
indication that the public had inadequate time to share its views, or 
that 30 additional days would have resulted in material additional 
comments. The Postal Service has considered and taken seriously all 
significant comments.

IV. Operation of the Final Rule

    The proposed rule, and the final rule on which it is based, was 
designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the variation in state 
election laws and election administration practices. However, some 
commenters interpreted this flexibility as vague, expressing 
frustration about the lack of concrete compliance steps or confusion 
over the responsibilities of Authorized Ballot Mailers and Federal 
Ballot Mail Portal Users. Commenters also misconstrued the proposed 
rule's provisions as covering the most expansive scope of ballot mail 
possible while also operating in the most restrictive manner possible. 
This led to a substantial volume of comments that were premised on 
inaccurate factual assumptions, with the underlying basis for the 
expressed opposition being based, either in full or in part, on these 
inaccurate assumptions. These inaccuracies led to many exaggerated 
claims about the

[[Page 54978]]

impact of the proposed rule as well as the Postal Service's role under 
the rule.
    The Postal Service does not expressly recount each inaccuracy here, 
in an effort to avoid further confusion. Instead, to respond to the 
multitude of factual misunderstandings represented in the comments, and 
in an effort to supply additional details, the Postal Service offers 
the following explanation of how the final rule is intended to be 
implemented.

A. Overview

    To begin, the Postal Service is continuing to accept and deliver 
ballot mail, including Federal Ballot Mail, from election officials and 
voters. The proposed rule does not end or prevent mail-in or absentee 
voting, contrary to the mistaken claims raised in comments. As 
explained above, the Postal Service is continuing to carry out its core 
statutory mission in a uniform, neutral, and nondiscriminatory manner. 
Nothing in this rule need prevent that outcome, as states will retain 
full control over who is (or is not) permitted to vote by mail in their 
jurisdiction.
    The rule introduces new mailpiece preparation requirements and data 
reporting standards for Federal Ballot Mail that must be satisfied 
prior to presenting Outbound Federal Ballot Mail for acceptance into 
the mailstream. Thus, the final rule regulates Federal Ballot Mail, 
consistent with the Postal Service's core statutory function, not the 
franchise. Eligibility for mail-in and absentee voting will continue to 
be governed by state law; state and local election officials will still 
determine which individuals are eligible under these laws; and state 
and local election officials will determine whether completed ballots 
are eligible to be counted. To repeat, the Postal Service will not play 
any role in determining voter eligibility, maintaining voter rolls, or 
counting ballots. The Postal Service will not open ballot mail, 
including Federal Ballot Mail; will not know the contents of a ballot; 
will not know how an individual voted; and will not know an 
individual's political party affiliation.
    However, as many commenters acknowledged, and consistent with the 
stated authority above, the Postal Service will generally not accept 
Outbound Federal Ballot mailings unless compliance with the rule's new 
standards has been verified, as further detailed below and in the final 
rule.

B. Optional 90-Day Pre-Mailing Notice

    Section 705.24.2 of the rule creates an optional process through 
which a state's chief election official (including those representing 
DC and U.S. territories) may alert the Postal Service of the state's 
intent to allow mail-in or absentee ballots to be transmitted by the 
Postal Service. This notice may be given 90 days prior to a federal 
election. This provision does not require a response from the state 
official, and also does not require preparation of a list of 
individuals to whom a ballot will be mailed or coordination with local 
officials (although the state official may choose to do so).
    Some commenters misunderstood the purpose of this optional notice. 
For instance, one comment from a former election official stated that 
the Postal Service is already well aware of whether a state intends to 
use its services. The purpose of this provision, however, is to 
facilitate pre-election planning, as some commenters accurately 
recognized. When the Postal Service knows that a state plans to send 
ballots for a federal election using the mail, it can conduct outreach 
on mail preparation, provide resources related to IMbs, and offer 
guidance on how to access and use the Federal Ballot Mail Portal. While 
the process to enroll in the Portal is straightforward, beginning this 
process sooner--as the 90-day notice would allow--will be logistically 
beneficial.
    Alternatively, the chief state election official can provide no 
notice at all. This does not preclude the state from using the Postal 
Service to transmit mail-in and absentee ballots for federal elections. 
Ballots for federal elections may still be sent through the mail so 
long as the chief state election official, and any other Federal Ballot 
Mail Portal User, creates a Portal account, satisfies the rule's mail 
preparation requirements, enters the required information into the 
Portal, and successfully completes verification prior to their Outbound 
Federal Ballot Mail being accepting for mailing.
    The chief state election official may also provide notice that they 
do not intend to transmit ballots using the mail or that they do not 
intend to use the Portal. This also provides the Postal Service with 
valuable information to plan its resources and may inform internal 
training.
    It should also be emphasized that these notices are not binding. 
For example, if the chief state election official initially informs the 
Postal Service that they do not intend to use the Portal, they may 
later change their mind and send ballots using the mail by following 
the steps outlined above.

C. Envelope Design

    The rule makes several of the Postal Service's longstanding 
mailpiece design preparation recommendations required elements for 
Federal Ballot Mail. As many commenters recognized, these elements--the 
Official Election Mail logo, automation-compatible envelope design, 
uniquely serialized IMbs on outbound and return envelopes, and 
mailpiece design review--are not novel. Each of these design elements 
is already recommended in the Postal Service's Official Election Mail 
Guide (``Kit 600'') and included as a best practice in DMM 703.8.0. 
Some jurisdictions have, on their own initiative, already opted to 
implement these recommendations to varying degrees. However, nothing in 
the rule prevents or discourages election officials from including 
envelope design elements required by state law, such as printed 
affidavits. Nor does anything in the rule prevent states from complying 
with accessibility laws or including unique envelope design elements 
intended to accommodate voters covered by these laws. The rule will not 
create a single, uniform ballot envelope design across all states; 
variation will remain. Rather, as one commenter explained, what the 
rule adds is uniformity: it makes these proven measures a consistent 
baseline for every jurisdiction that mails federal ballots, closing the 
patchwork that today inhibits mailpiece visibility and can make it more 
difficult to process and deliver ballot mail.
    The rule's design requirements help to ensure timely processing and 
delivery of Federal Ballot Mail. As explained in the proposed rule and 
as echoed by many commenters, envelopes built for automation move 
through processing with less manual intervention and fewer chances for 
error. A consistent, recognizable election mail logo helps postal 
employees distinguish ballot mail from other mailpieces and facilitates 
proper handling, in accordance with existing Postal Service policy. And 
unique IMb data helps facilitate the tracking of individual pieces of 
Federal Ballot Mail to and from individual voters as the barcodes are 
scanned on the Postal Service's mail processing equipment.
    Some commenters, including election officials and election-related 
organizations, appeared confused about how to generate IMbs. Unique 
IMbs can be generated for any type of address, including P.O. Boxes and 
nontraditional addresses. Generating and printing unique IMbs does not 
require specialized equipment or expensive software. It can be done by 
election officials of any level of technical sophistication, including 
those jurisdictions that manually print and stuff their own ballot 
envelopes, using

[[Page 54979]]

free tools and common office equipment.
    The Postal Service offers a number of tools and resources to make 
generating unique IMbs simple, quick, and cost-effective. For example, 
the Postal Service's Intelligent Mail for Small Business Tool (``IMsb 
Tool'') is a free (voluntary) online tool specifically designed for 
small-volume mailers that do not use Business Reply Mail, allowing such 
mailers to generate unique IMbs for printing on address labels or 
envelopes. The IMsb Tool is a web-based program that does not require 
any software or downloads. It allows small mailers to create mailings 
and documentation without making the investment of engaging software 
providers. Customers can upload their mailing list into the Tool to 
create and print address labels, envelopes, inserts or card stock and 
also generate the associated postage statements. The printing can be 
done from a regular printer. Some in the election community have 
printed the IMbs themselves using this tool for several years. More 
information about getting started in the IMsb Tool is available on 
PostalPro: <a href="https://postalpro.usps.com/node/2266">https://postalpro.usps.com/node/2266</a>.
    The Postal Service also anticipates making modifications to the 
IMsb Tool to further enhance its functionality for Federal Ballot Mail. 
For instance, the Tool will be able to create lists for Portal 
submissions that contain a file with the name, address, and unique 
outbound and return IMb of individuals on the election official's 
mailing list. This file can be uploaded directly to the Portal by 
Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users. Another change for Federal Ballot 
Mail in the IMsb Tool will allow election officials to generate a 
unique IMb even where the address cannot be verified using Delivery 
Point Verification (``DPV''). Although DPV helps to identify issues 
that may hinder delivery, this modification will reduce the chance of 
an administrative or technical issue that could prevent an election 
official from generating a unique IMb.
    Alternatively, if an election official prefers to work with a 
vendor, as many do, the Postal Service provides a list of certified 
vendors and Mail Service Providers (``MSPs'') at <a href="https://postalpro.usps.com/certifiedmsps/">https://postalpro.usps.com/certifiedmsps/</a>. It is a basic function of MSPs to 
print mailings with unique IMbs. To the extent they arise, printing 
issues, including jams, are surmountable and do not prevent proper 
implementation of the rule.
    The Postal Service's Managers of Customer Relations (``MCRs'') are 
also available to provide guidance and support on mailpiece design as 
election officials work to comply with the rule. MCRs serve as 
dedicated points of contact for each election jurisdiction, including 
territories. They regularly educate election officials on the benefits 
of using unique IMbs and can direct election officials to available 
postal resources to help them get started. Election officials can 
contact their local MCR directly or by following this link: <a href="https://electionmail.usps.com/s/contact-local-mcr">https://electionmail.usps.com/s/contact-local-mcr</a>. Election Officials can also 
contact the Mailing & Shipping Solutions Center (``MSSC'') for support 
regarding IMbs by email at <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#044957574744717774772a636b72"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="0a475959494a7f797a79246d657c">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or by phone at 1-877-672-0007 
(Monday-Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. CT).

D. Mailpiece Design Analyst Review

    Once election officials or their vendors have designed the Outbound 
and Return Federal Ballot Mail envelope to include the required 
elements, as set forth in DMM 705.24.3, the mailpiece must be submitted 
to the Postal Service for review by one of its MDAs. The envelope 
design must be reviewed each election cycle. If a state uses a single 
design, each political subdivision thereof does not need to separately 
submit the envelope for review. Mailpieces do not need to be reviewed 
prior to each separate mailing.
    The mailpiece design review referenced in 705.24.3 is the existing 
MDA review process that many in the election community already utilize. 
MDAs are specially trained postal employees who can answer questions 
about mailpiece design, including IMbs and automation compatibility. 
Consulting with Postal Service MDAs will help ensure election officials 
have a well-designed Federal Ballot Mail envelope that is compatible 
with Postal Service guidelines and regulations, including the 
provisions of this rule. Although MDAs are already trained to assess 
the design elements included in this rule, the Postal Service will 
provide supplemental training to MDAs on Federal Ballot Mail and will 
offer additional resources as necessary to ensure customers receive 
consistent, accurate advice.
    The rule does not change the process for submitting a mailpiece for 
review, receiving feedback, or contesting an MDA's advice. Customers 
can receive assistance from an MDA by submitting a design review 
request to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#0b464f4a4b7e787b78256c647d"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="1b565f5a5b6e686b68357c746d">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>, through the Postal Service's Election Mail 
website at <a href="https://electionmail.usps.com/s/election-mail-review">https://electionmail.usps.com/s/election-mail-review</a>, or by 
calling 877-672-0007 (select option 3 for mailpiece design) (Monday-
Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. CT).
    MDA review is generally a quick process. MDAs typically aim to 
provide feedback to mailers within 2 business days after receiving the 
mailer's request and necessary information and samples.
    More information about the MDA review process is available in Kit 
600 or at <a href="https://postalpro.usps.com/node/773">https://postalpro.usps.com/node/773</a>.

E. Federal Ballot Mail Portal

    Under 705.24.4, Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users, including state 
and local election officials and other authorized users, such as MSPs, 
must submit certain data into the Federal Ballot Mail Portal prior to 
presenting an Outbound Federal Ballot mailing for acceptance. Chief 
state election officials are not required to enter this data themselves 
or to consolidate data for all political subdivisions within their 
state before data can be entered into the Portal. The chief state 
election official of each state does, however, authorize access for 
other Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users within their state. The rule 
also allows other individuals to enter information into the Portal if 
authorized, such as staff members, MSPs, or other vendors, thereby 
minimizing any potential administrative burden on election officials.
    The Postal Service recognizes that many states have decentralized 
election administration. It is important that the state, through the 
chief state election official, maintain ultimate control over access to 
the Portal because they will have more visibility into their own 
election structures than will the Postal Service.
    Voters themselves will not enroll with the Postal Service, and are 
not responsible for verifying Portal information or correcting 
information provided by Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users. In part, this 
is because voters do not design ballot mail envelopes and, 
consequently, do not have the relevant data elements for the Portal. 
Instead, that responsibility lies exclusively with election officials 
and their authorized MSPs.
    Once Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users have set up a Portal account, 
they will be prompted to certify that their Outbound and Return Federal 
Ballot Mail envelopes have been submitted for MDA review and that they 
have received feedback. Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users will not be 
able to upload any data into the Portal until the certification is 
complete. This will ensure compliance with DMM 705.24.3.1 and 
705.24.3.2 and reduces the information that is verified prior to 
acceptance of an Outbound Federal

[[Page 54980]]

Ballot mailing. Business Mail Entry Unit (``BMEU'') technicians and 
Retail clerks will not perform a separate review of this information.
    After completing the certification, Federal Ballot Mail Portal 
Users must provide: the name and address of the voter as found on 
Outbound Federal Ballot Mail envelope; the issuing state; and the IMbs 
on the Outbound and Return Federal Ballot Mail envelopes. This 
information must be uploaded to the Portal prior to presenting Outbound 
Federal Ballot Mail for acceptance. These data help to ensure that the 
rule's preparation standards have been satisfied, can provide valuable 
insight to election officials and law enforcement, and facilitate the 
verification process. This type of information is regularly collected 
by the Postal Service, including on mailing manifests. No other voter 
information, such as birthdate, social security number, or other voter 
registration details, will be uploaded to the Portal. As described 
further below, the Postal Service is developing this Portal with 
appropriate cybersecurity and privacy safeguards to protect Portal 
data, consistent with applicable law.
    The required information can be uploaded into the Portal using an 
Excel template specifically formatted for Portal submission. Uploading 
and generating the necessary information is similar to submitting a 
manifest for bulk mailings, which larger election offices and their 
MSPs routinely complete. For smaller jurisdictions, the (free and 
optional) IMsb Tool can be used to generate a file that can be uploaded 
directly into the Portal. This will help minimize any data entry 
burden. The Postal Service does not anticipate that providing Portal 
data should require any change to statewide systems or databases. 
States must necessarily already maintain lists or databases with the 
relevant name and address information, otherwise it would never have 
been possible to mail those ballots in the first place. These systems 
are intended to remain separate, and do not need to be interconnected 
with the Portal. One commenter mentioned that states may wish to update 
their databases to include IMb data. States are free to undertake such 
actions, but it is not required by the rule.
    Under the proposed rule, there is a flexible timeline for uploading 
data into the Portal. Initial mailing lists should be entered into the 
Portal at least 30 days before the election, if possible, or by the 
date on which ballots must begin being mailed under state law. This 30-
day timeline, retained without modification in the final rule, is not a 
rigid deadline for completing Portal data entry. Although Executive 
Order 14399 contemplated a proposal in which states would submit such 
lists ``no fewer than 60 days before the election,'' the flexible 30-
day timeline accommodates variations in state law.
    The Postal Service does not expect these initial lists to be 
complete or final. States may continue to add, amend, or remove data 
from the Portal to account for new voters, new mail-in or absentee 
ballot requests, replacement ballots, addressing administrative errors, 
and other changes consistent with their state's law. These changes can 
be made as a new separate entry or by updating prior entries. This 
flexibility is intended to facilitate--not constrain--voters' ability 
to access mail-in or absentee voting as permitted by their own state's 
voting law, none of which are altered by this rule.
    Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users can update the information 
submitted through the Portal as frequently as needed, consistent with 
state law. This process is designed to be flexible to account for 
variation in state law. For example, as one commenter explained, 
California Elections Code Section 3000.5(a) dictates when county 
election officials are to mail ballots to registered voters. Section 
3005.5(a) provides, in part: ``for each election, the elections 
official shall, no later than 29 days before the day of the election, 
begin mailing the materials specified in Section 3010 to every 
registered voter. The elections official shall have five days to mail a 
ballot to each person who is registered to vote on the 29th day before 
the day of the election and five days to mail a ballot to each person 
who is subsequently registered to vote.'' Under California law, a voter 
may also register as late as 15 days before an election and will 
subsequently be sent a ballot via mail. Even after the 15th day before 
an election, voters may request a replacement mail ballot upon request 
to their county election official. This state statutory scheme is 
consistent with the rule. California election officials could submit 
initial mailing lists into the Portal 30 days (or sooner) before the 
election and present Outbound Federal Mailings for acceptance ``no 
later than 29 days before the day of the election,'' consistent with 
state law. California election officials may continue to add Portal 
entries for Outbound Federal Ballot Mail destined for voters who 
register after that time and until the 15th day before the election, 
and even after the 15th day before the election may continue to make 
supplemental entries for any replacement requests.
    The ability to add and amend lists also allows Authorized Ballot 
Mailers to enter Outbound Federal Ballot Mail in batches, consistent 
with the current practice for many in the election community. Federal 
Ballot Mail Portal Users may continue to supplement the Portal data as 
permitted by state law, potentially up until Election Day. The only 
constraint imposed by the rule in this regard is that the information 
for a particular mailing must be uploaded into the Portal prior to the 
Outbound Federal Ballot mailing being presented to the Postal Service 
for acceptance. Thus, the Portal and verification process accommodate 
election officials who (for example) may do one large mailing and 
multiple smaller mailings. It also accommodates election officials who 
prepare many ballots for mailing at once but enter them into the 
mailstream in multiple installments.
    Portal data will be updated as soon as it is submitted by the 
Federal Ballot Mail Portal User, and there should be minimal to no 
delay between Portal upload and a mailer's ability to present the 
mailing for acceptance. Portal data will also be available for 
verification purposes on a nationwide basis. If an Outbound Federal 
Ballot mailing is presented for acceptance outside of the issuing 
state, Postal Service employees would still have access to the 
necessary Portal data to perform verification under DMM 705.24.5.
    Within the Portal, the Postal Service plans to confirm that the 
required data fields are completed (i.e., they may not be left blank) 
prior to Outbound Federal Ballot mailings being presented for 
acceptance. This includes verifying the unique IMb on Return Federal 
Ballot Mail has been uploaded into the Portal. Aside from confirming 
that the required data has been uploaded, however, the Postal Service 
will not otherwise verify, correct, or amend any data entered into the 
Portal. It will not determine whether an individual's name is accurate; 
so, for example, married women changing their names or potential 
mismatches for misspellings will not prevent a ballot from reaching a 
voter under the rule. Likewise, the Postal Service will not assess the 
accuracy of the address entered, such as to determine whether there is 
a Change of Address or whether the address is otherwise invalid. 
Moreover, the address uploaded into the Portal should be the address 
used on the Outbound Federal Ballot Mail envelope. Nontraditional 
addresses, such as tribal addresses, college dormitories, and long-term 
care facilities, can and should be entered into the Portal if that is 
the address on the Outbound Federal Ballot envelope. Voters who may 
move often,

[[Page 54981]]

like students, the homeless, the elderly, renters, or people whose 
mailing addresses do not match identically with government records, 
should not experience delivery issues under the rule so long as their 
state or local election official has their current mailing address.
    The Postal Service will not be comparing any data entered into the 
Portal against state voter rolls as part of the verification process or 
otherwise. This means that state election officials will maintain full 
control over managing their own voter rolls and determining voter 
eligibility without any interference or involvement from the Postal 
Service.
    All data or changes submitted by Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users 
will be accepted. The possibility that the Portal may, therefore, be 
overinclusive does not undermine the purposes of the rule as the State 
Mail-In and Absentee Participation List, which compiles all Portal data 
for a state and is not intended to serve as a replacement for official 
voter rolls.
    Finally, shortly after the effective date of the final rule, the 
Postal Service will make additional guidance documents available, 
including a User Guide for the Portal and Technical Specifications for 
the Portal. These resources will explain how to create a Portal 
account, how to assign and approve Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users, 
the file format for Portal uploads, and how to resolve errors and make 
new submissions; these documents will be available in accessible 
formats. The Postal Service has an established process for 
communicating new or updated technical requirements that it will deploy 
to inform election officials, MSPs, and others in the mailing community 
about the Portal and these resources. This process includes familiar 
communications channels, including Industry Alerts and Mailers 
Technical Advisory Committee User Group notifications, which help to 
ensure that the information reaches the appropriate audience. MCRs are 
also available to assist individual customers by email and phone. The 
Postal Service will also directly engage with election officials, MSPs, 
and other stakeholders to answer questions and provide guidance related 
to implementation of the rule.

F. Outbound Federal Ballot Mail Entry

    When preparing Outbound Federal Ballot mailings, Authorized Ballot 
Mailers must segregate Outbound Federal Ballot Mail from other types of 
ballot mail, such as primary ballots, UOCAVA ballots, or ballots for 
state or local elections only. Comingling non-federal ballot mail with 
Outbound Federal Ballot Mail may impact the verification process and 
could prevent or delay proper acceptance of mailings. For ballots that 
have both federal and state issues on the ballot, the mailing will be 
treated as Outbound Federal Ballot Mail and will be subject to the 
rule. At entry, mailers should inform the BMEU technician or Retail 
clerk if a ballot mailing contains non-federal ballots. Timing 
differences (between primaries and general elections or between federal 
and state elections) and external indicia may also help alert postal 
employees to the presence of non-Federal Ballot Mail.
    The Postal Service is also working on establishing Federal Election 
Mail and Non-Federal Election Mail Service Type Identifiers 
(``STIDs''). Specifically, the Postal Service is planning to convert 
the current Election Mail STIDs to Federal Election Mail STIDs. New 
STIDs will be developed for non-Federal elections. This approach will 
assist jurisdictions that may have already finalized the printing 
process for their 2026 general election envelopes relying on the 
existing STID table, and will support their ability to comply with the 
final rule. Having unique STIDs for Federal and non-Federal elections 
will help to further distinguish Federal Ballot Mail from other ballot 
mail. Prior to finalizing and releasing the new STIDs, the Postal 
Service will publish a notice in the Federal Register.
    As stated in the proposed rule, Outbound Federal Ballot mailings 
must be entered at a Post Office retail counter, including manual post 
offices, or a BMEU. A locator tool for Postal Service locations is 
available here: <a href="https://tools.usps.com/locations/">https://tools.usps.com/locations/</a>. These mailings may 
not be entered into blue collection boxes, collection boxes in retail 
lobbies, or through other means. While the rule makes this restriction 
mandatory, it is also consistent with the Postal Service's general 
guidance for outbound ballot mailings. Commercial mailings must meet 
applicable DMM requirements. Mailings paid at single-piece First Class 
Mail rates are not required to meet commercial mailing standards.
    Verification under 705.24.5 will be performed at a BMEU or Post 
Office retail counter when an Outbound Federal Ballot mailing is 
presented for acceptance. Conducting verification prior to acceptance 
is intended to obviate confusion and provide a clear, immediate 
identification of potential issues. Either a BMEU technician, if the 
mailing is presented at a BMEU, or Retail clerk, if the mailing is 
presented at a Post Office or other Postal Service retail location, 
will perform the verification. Both BMEU technicians and Retail clerks 
will receive training on this process.
    The verification process is straightforward. The Outbound Federal 
Ballot mailings will be verified using the IMb on the outside of the 
Outbound Federal Ballot Mail envelope. Relying on existing scanning 
technology and devices, the Postal Service will confirm the presence of 
scanned barcodes in the Federal Ballot Mail Portal. Portal data will be 
available for verification purposes on a nationwide basis. Therefore, 
if a state uses an MSP located in a state different than the issuing 
state of the ballot, the Postal Service will still be able to conduct 
verification.
    This process can be completed promptly. Scanning a barcode 
generally takes less than a minute per mailpiece. Depending on how many 
barcodes are scanned, the verification process should take no more than 
a few hours for larger mailings, and potentially only a few minutes for 
smaller mailings. Authorized Ballot Mailers should remain at the BMEU 
or postal retail location during the verification process.
    If the Outbound Federal Ballot mailing meets the verification 
standards, it will be accepted by the Postal Service. No further action 
is needed by election officials or voters under the rule.
    Authorized Ballot Mailers will be informed of the escalation 
procedures should they decide to challenge a rejection; relevant Postal 
Service employees will also receive training about these procedures. 
The ability to cure rests not with the voter, as the franchise itself 
is not impacted, but with the officials responsible for preparing the 
envelope and entering Portal data. This approach is consistent with how 
election mail works now, where election officials and mailers are 
responsible for preparing the ballot mail, addressing the mailpieces 
properly, ensuring that they are going to the proper individual, and 
correcting any error that may occur or prevent delivery to the intended 
recipient. Thus, the Postal Service will continue to resolve issues 
consistent with our current approach, rather than creating a new 
``appeal'' process for voters, as many commenters urged, that would 
impose a direct burden on voters and increase the risk of confusion and 
concern.
    Once Outbound Federal Ballot Mail is accepted by the Postal 
Service, it will enter and move through the mailstream as it has in 
prior elections. It will not be intercepted, returned, or delayed due 
to the rule.

[[Page 54982]]

    The verification process does not entail scrutiny into, or any 
attempt to evaluate, individual voters. The Postal Service is not 
verifying addresses, names, voter eligibility, or citizenship status as 
part of this verification process. As noted above, Portal data will be 
regularly refreshed to minimize the risk that the verification process 
incorrectly flags, delays, or disrupts lawful federal ballot materials.
    Verification under DMM 705.24.5 is done only for Outbound Federal 
Ballot mailings. If a voter chooses to return their completed ballot by 
mail, they should use the Federal Return Ballot Mail envelope provided 
by their state; and they may continue to mail from a residential 
mailbox, a blue collection box, or any retail counter. Once the Federal 
Return Ballot Mail enters the mailstream, it will be processed and 
delivered consistently with current operational practices. This 
includes generating scan data from the unique IMb on the outer return 
envelope when the mailpiece is processed on the Postal Service's 
automated equipment subject to certain limitations, including 
extraordinary measures that may remove ballots from normal operational 
processes to expedite delivery.
    The Postal Service also wishes to clarify two provisions of the 
proposed rule, which are adopted without change in the final rule. 
First, the Postal Service would like to clarify the meaning of Section 
705.24.5.2, which provides in part that ``[t]he Postal Service's 
acceptance of Outbound Federal Ballot Mail does not constitute verified 
compliance.'' This provision was included in recognition of the fact 
that, despite the Postal Service's best efforts, some Outbound Federal 
Mail may enter the mailstream that does not meet the preparation or 
data standards set forth in the rule. For that reason, DMM 705.24.5.2 
is intended to acknowledge that acceptance (and ultimately delivery) of 
an outbound federal ballot does not, in and of itself, evidence 
compliance with the rule's provisions.
    Second, commenters expressed concern over 705.24.5.3.d, which 
states that ``[t]he Postal Service assumes no responsibility for any 
outbound ballot mailing presented until it is accepted into the mail. 
The Postal Service is not responsible for service delays when the 
Ballot Portal User or Authorized Ballot Mailer does not meet the 
applicable preparation or entry standards.'' The Postal Service notes 
that comparable statements appear throughout the DMM, and that the 
provision reflects the longstanding principle that the Postal Service 
is not responsible for a mailing until the mailing is in its custody--
that is, until it has been accepted. For example, DMM 608.11.3 
(Postmarks and Postal Possession) describes the point at which the 
``Postal Service accept[s] custody of a mailpiece,'' and the Plant-
Verified Drop Shipment provisions of DMM 705 provide that such 
shipments ``are freight until deposited and accepted as mail at the 
destination facility.'' The specific language in 705.24.5.3.d is 
similar to a provision discussing the effects on service for Metered 
Mail Drop Shipments, which also must satisfy specific preparation 
conditions to be accepted for mailing. DMM 705.19.1. That provision 
states: ``The USPS assumes no responsibility for the material presented 
until it is accepted into the mail. The USPS is not responsible for 
service delays when the mailer does not meet the applicable preparation 
or entry requirements.'' This language is included in the rule to 
ensure that mailers know that they must remain in control of an 
Outbound Federal Ballot mailing until it has been accepted by the 
Postal Service.

G. State-Specific Mail-In and Absentee Participation List

    On or about Election Day, the Postal Service will generate a state-
specific Mail-In and Absentee Participation List, which compiles all 
Federal Ballot Mail Portal entries submitted for the originating state. 
This list will be securely transmitted to the chief election official 
of each state. The Postal Service will not disclose the Lists to the 
public. The List is in effect a manifest, and is primarily intended to 
assist election officials and law enforcement to understand who may 
have been mailed a ballot, in order to identify potentially anomalous 
incidents that may merit further investigation. Providing the list on 
or after Election Day is consistent with this purpose.
    To be clear, the state-specific Lists are not intended to 
substitute for or supplant state voter rolls. It simply offers another 
data point at the chief state election official's disposal based on 
their own Portal data. The chief state election official is free to 
choose whether and how to use the state-specific list. Those decisions 
are not dictated by the Postal Service or this rule. States have sole 
responsibility for ensuring the accuracy of their voter rolls and 
counting ballots as permitted under state law.
    The Portal data is the sole data source used to generate the Lists. 
These data are provided directly by election officials (and other 
Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users) based on the mailings they actually 
made or planned to make. The List will not be based on external sources 
of information, such as federal databases made available by the 
Department of Homeland Security or the Social Security Administration. 
Nor will the Postal Service compare Portal data to any other internal 
or external source (e.g., National Change of Address data, federal data 
lists), filter the information, or otherwise alter the Portal data on 
its own when compiling the state-specific List. The Lists will also not 
contain any scan data. As one commenter correctly stated, the rule 
``require[s] USPS to provide the state with the List that contained the 
same information that the state provided to USPS.''
    In light of the above, some commenters questioned the purpose of 
the Lists. Other commenters recognized that the value of the List lies 
in the creation of reconcilable data that offer a neutral 
administrative check that strengthens confidence in elections. These 
commenters argued that credible post-election audits can rise or fall 
on the quality of the underlying data. The state-specific List would 
meaningfully sharpen that data by providing significantly enhanced 
visibility regarding the sending of mail-in ballots, as it will provide 
federal law enforcement with a list of individuals to whom states 
planned to mail a ballot (and who may potentially use the mail to 
vote), along with the associated barcode data, which the Postal Service 
understands will help to facilitate enforcement of federal law. 
Currently, law enforcement lacks such information regarding the use of 
the mail. The List is not intended to substitute for official election 
records or state mandated reconciliation procedures. In assessing the 
List for areas of potential further investigation, it should also be 
noted that some variation may exist between the List and the (separate) 
scan data for a variety of reasons, for example not all voters who 
receive a mail-in ballot will return it by mail, and as noted above the 
Portal data may be over-inclusive. The benefits of the rule are still 
achieved notwithstanding these variations.

V. Impact of the Final Rule

    Consistent with the operation of the rule set forth above, the 
Postal Service also clarifies the impact of the rule on voters and 
election officials, particularly as weighed against the rule's purpose 
and benefits. As provided by the comments, this section discusses 
commenters' claims regarding the benefits and burdens of the rule, and 
how the Postal Service is striking an appropriate balance in the final 
rule.

[[Page 54983]]

A. Benefits of the Rule

    Those commenters who supported the rule believed that the benefits 
to the rule are aligned with the rule's intended purpose and that the 
rule's policy goals are properly weighed against the potential burdens, 
harms, and costs. They urged the Postal Service to swiftly adopt the 
proposed rule, so that all federal elections could benefit from its 
stated improvements, including mailpiece visibility and the enforcement 
of federal law.
    As an initial matter, these comments acknowledged that mail ballots 
play an important role for many voters, but also had concerns related 
to voter fraud. These commenters noted that even the possibility that 
elections are taking place in an unsecure manner due to lack of 
necessary visibility can undermine public confidence in the electoral 
process, even if no fraud is ultimately discovered. These commenters 
asserted that given the prevalence of mail-in voting, it would be both 
appropriate and beneficial for the government entity tasked with 
delivering ballots to and from the voter and the election office to put 
safeguards in place. Many of these commenters argued that by making the 
mailstream more reliable and more transparent on a nationwide basis, 
the rule would provide states with a means to combat potential voter 
fraud in ways they could not do acting alone. Commenters note that this 
would strengthen public confidence in the election system without 
altering any state election laws, voter registration, or eligibility 
requirements; or changing how ballots are issued, collected, or 
counted. As one comment explained: public confidence in elections is 
best sustained by procedures that can be verified, documented, and 
consistently applied.
    Moreover, these commenters recognized that the rule offers 
efficiency and security benefits for voters and election officials, and 
promotes secure elections that the public can be confident in. 
Commenters note that a set of minimum envelope-design standards would 
help election officials, the Postal Service, and the public better 
account for Federal Ballot Mail moving through the mailstream. As 
several commenters explained, a ballot that can be tracked is far 
harder to misplace, stall, or counterfeit. Improved tracking may also 
help identify discrepancies between ballots mailed and ballots 
received, some commenters added, making it easier to detect and deter 
potential fraud or irregularities while protecting the integrity of 
mail-in voting. Even parties opposing the rule recognized that unique 
IMbs can provide unmatched visibility into the mailpiece's progress in 
the mailstream. Commenters also reiterated the importance of the 
Official Election Mail logo as a means for voters to recognize election 
mail as important and distinct from other mailings and to help Postal 
Service employees identify official election mail among the millions of 
mailpieces processed daily. Commenters further explained that advance 
review of ballot envelope designs would reduce operational errors, 
delays, and delivery issues that have sometimes affected voters and 
delayed delivery of their ballots. As examples, commenters pointed out 
that non-automation compatible ballot mail is more likely to encounter 
avoidable processing complications or delays, and other mailpiece 
design defects could prevent barcodes from being read or increase the 
need for manual handling. Commenters concluded that requiring design 
review before ballot envelopes are printed and mailed is a low-cost, 
high-value step that can prevent serious problems during the compressed 
period before an election.
    Furthermore, these commenters state that the rule's other 
preparation and data entry requirements, particularly those involving 
the Portal, would support stronger coordination between state election 
officials and the Postal Service. For example, the rule would improve 
pre-election planning by allowing states to notify the Postal Service 
before using the postal system for ballot delivery. States would still 
retain full control over who receives a ballot, and the Postal Service 
would have better information to plan resources. Many election 
officials who submitted comments, including those who opposed the rule, 
expressed appreciation for the Postal Service's ongoing efforts to 
support election officials. The rule, some commenters noted, provides 
another avenue to strengthen those relationships. Many commenters 
concluded that by improving coordination between election officials and 
the Postal Service, the proposed rule has the potential to reduce 
undeliverable election mail, strengthen ballot accountability, and 
reinforce public confidence that election mail is being sent to the 
correct recipients.
    These commenters further contend that applying reasonable 
verification procedures to federal election ballots is consistent with 
the Postal Service's longstanding mission of delivering mail 
accurately, securely, and reliably. Commenters noted that verification, 
as contemplated in the rule, does not alter the states' authority to 
determine voter eligibility or administer elections. Rather, it 
provides an additional administrative safeguard to help ensure that 
ballots approved by election officials are delivered accurately to the 
intended recipient. Commenters opposing and supporting the rule noted 
the extensive efforts election officials undertake to maintain accurate 
voter rolls. Those in favor of the proposed rule argue that rather than 
duplicating, undermining, or usurping these efforts, the rule 
strengthens ballot distribution procedures as a logical complement to 
states' election administration responsibilities.
    Ultimately, these commenters reasoned that while the rule would 
place some administrative burdens on states, as they take advantage of 
the new Portal registration, barcode generation, and list submission 
provisions, these burdens are plainly justified by the rule's security 
and accountability benefits. Overall, in their view, the rule's 
standards would improve accountability without displacing the role of 
states in deciding who is eligible to vote or how elections are 
administered. The operational improvements that the rule mandates would 
benefit voters of every political affiliation because they promote 
accuracy, efficiency, and transparency in the administration of federal 
elections. These commenters explained that public confidence in 
elections is strengthened when every stage of ballot distribution is 
transparent. They also opined that the rule would help facilitate the 
appropriate direction of resources to law enforcement efforts.

B. Burdens and Costs of the Rule

    Separate from arguments, discussed above, about the legal authority 
for the rule, numerous commenters opposing the rule also criticized it 
for purportedly failing to account for the potential burdens and other 
alleged harms it would impose on voters and election officials, not 
addressing associated reliance interests, and not adequately 
demonstrating a connection between the proposed rule's provisions and 
its stated goal. These commenters asserted that a rule of this nature 
should be based on detailed study, should be gradually rolled out, and 
should move forward only after election officials and the Postal 
Service are fully prepared for implementation. In particular, these 
commenters argued that a rule of this nature should not be issued 
roughly three months before an election. These commenters contended 
that the Postal Service should not finalize this rule without a 
reasoned explanation, a full implementation analysis, and an

[[Page 54984]]

assessment of foreseeable civil rights impacts. Commenters strongly 
urged the Postal Service not to finalize it.
Voters
    Those opposed to the rule expressed concern about the possibility 
of disenfranchisement. They contended that voters may be omitted from 
the Portal with no recourse, that an administrative or technical error 
may result in an otherwise lawful ballot being rejected by the Postal 
Service, or that voters may not receive a ballot at all if their state 
government chooses not to provide data in the Portal. Any of these 
scenarios, commenters argued, could result in voters having their mail-
in or absentee ballots withheld or delayed, without any recourse or 
viable alternative to cast a ballot. Commenters asserted that some 
voters may be especially impacted should their ability to vote by mail 
be altered in any way, including those who are disabled, are elderly, 
have limited English proficiency, live in rural-dwelling, or are 
financially distressed. According to commenters, voters would bear the 
practical consequence of any delivery delay, even if the delay was 
caused by an administrative process outside the voter's control. 
Commenters asserted that the rule would discourage individuals from 
voting by mail. Other commenters argued that any policy that could 
result in the delay, rejection, segregation, or differential treatment 
of mail ballots raises concerns regarding voter access, election 
administration, and public confidence in the democratic process.
    Commenters also discussed the risks of confusion that the rule 
would purportedly create, particularly because voters may not know if 
their state has complied with or will be able to comply with the rule. 
These commenters claimed that the potential for voter confusion due to 
the rule is a harm in and of itself.
    Others expressed concerns for their privacy and did not want voter 
information included in a Portal run by the federal government or their 
identity linked to uniquely serialized IMbs on Outbound and Return 
Federal Ballot Mail envelopes.
Election Officials
    Among the most frequently raised concerns from commenters opposing 
the rule was the purported burden imposed on election officials, 
specifically if the rule were implemented immediately. Commenters, 
particularly election officials, secretaries of state, governmental 
officials, and voting organizations, stated that it would be difficult 
if not impossible to implement the rule in time for the 2026 general 
election. Election officials asserted that their preparations for the 
2026 election are already underway and that they lack the time, 
funding, and staff to implement the proposed rule. Some commenters 
asserted that they have already purchased envelopes for the 2026 
election cycle, and that generating unique barcodes for both outbound 
and return ballot mailings in some cases would require significant 
changes to their ballot envelope design, as well as procurement of 
those redesigned envelopes on an expedited timeline, which they assert 
would not be possible. Other commenters explained that in some cases, 
legislative action, Attorney General guidance, or state board approval 
are needed before such changes could be made. Some commenters posited 
that smaller and more rural counties with limited technology would be 
disproportionately affected, while others thought complying with the 
rule would be more onerous for election officials in states that have 
universal mail-in voting compared to states that do not mail absentee 
ballots unless requested by the voter.
    Commenters also argued that the rule would impose new and recurring 
costs and administrative burdens for future elections cycles that do 
not currently exist. In this regard, commenters note that election 
systems are designed around state law, existing technology systems, 
vendor contracts, staffing structures, election calendars, and 
operational procedures that have been developed over time, and 
introducing new reporting, certification, and verification processes 
for Federal Ballot Mail would, in their view, require significant 
modifications to existing workflows and systems. Having previously 
relied on current procedures in structuring their budgets, staffing, 
and election timelines, commenters note that states would have to 
absorb any new costs, which those plans never contemplated.
    Complying with the mail preparation and data-reporting standards, 
commenters asserted, would require them to divert resources away from 
processing voter registration applications and mail-in or absentee 
ballot applications, and in some instances the staffing necessary to 
implement the proposed rule may not be available at all. Election 
officials also asserted that there will be additional costs for direct 
voter contact, and other voter education efforts required to explain 
the rule to voters and to respond to related inquiries, including an 
increase in support calls.
Reliance Interests
    Other commenters argued that, when a federal entity issues new 
standards, it must assess whether there were reliance interests, 
determine whether these interests were significant, and weigh any such 
interests against competing policy concerns, and alleged that the 
Postal Service has failed to do so. Commenters argued that the rule 
would create a ``one size fits all'' federal policy that would displace 
established state and local practices driven by the needs of different 
localities and grounded in reliance on the Postal Service's dependable 
transmission of mail-in and absentee ballots. As noted above, 
commenters further focused on reliance interests related to 
preparations for the 2026 election cycle.
Relationship of the Rule to Its Intended Purpose
    Commenters argued that the proposed rule was not sufficiently tied 
to its stated purpose--namely to help ensure election integrity, fraud 
prevention, and facilitation of federal law enforcement. In their view, 
the proposed rule provides no empirical evidence or other explanation 
to articulate why existing election mail procedures are deficient, what 
operational problem would be solved by the Portal, or how IMb data 
would help mitigate or investigate election crimes. Numerous commenters 
also argued that, the proposed rule would not provide any material new 
information to law enforcement.
    Some commenters who opposed 705.24.4 and 705.24.5 were supportive 
of the mailpiece envelope design provisions of 705.24.3. However, those 
commenters noted that many of the envelope design best practices the 
rule would mandate are already available and used voluntarily. 
Commenters argued that converting these recommendations into federal 
requirements adds cost and operational risk for election officials 
without counterbalancing benefits.
Evaluating Less Restrictive Alternatives
    Several commenters also argued that the Postal Service should 
evaluate less restrictive alternatives. For example commenters 
suggested: voluntary pilot programs, phased implementation after the 
2026 election cycle or a capacity-adjusted implementation timeline, 
aggregate or post-mailing reconciliation, data minimization, hashed or 
non-voter-identifying records, safe harbors for minor or correctable 
defects, mandatory acceptance during Portal outages,

[[Page 54985]]

making the data entry standards optional, and emergency escalation 
procedures for replacement ballots, late-added voters, court-ordered 
ballots, and small-volume local mailings. Other commenters argued that 
rejection of Outbound Federal Ballot Mail for failure to satisfy 
preparation and data entry standards is a disproportionate consequence 
compared to the monetary penalties imposed elsewhere in the DMM for 
failing to meet other preparation or eligibility standards after an 
administrative review. See DMM 607.

C. Balancing Interests

    After careful consideration of these various viewpoints, and the 
comments discussing these issues, the Postal Service is moving to 
finalize the proposed rule, subject to certain modifications explained 
in ``Revisions Adopted in the Final Rule.''
    The Postal Service has thoroughly explained the rationale for 
imposing mail preparation and data reporting requirements as set forth 
in the proposed rule, which are necessary to help promote the faithful 
execution of federal law and advance the Postal Service's ability to 
efficiently handle Federal Ballot Mail. While the Postal Service's 
existing processes are designed to support the timely delivery and 
smooth processing of ballot mail, it has long recognized that across-
the-board compliance with its longstanding recommendations would 
further improve efficient handling, processing, and delivery. This 
would benefit the Postal Service, election officials, and voters alike. 
Moreover, while the Postal Service currently does obtain scan data for 
some ballot mail that could be useful for law-enforcement purposes, 
mandating compliance with the data reporting and mail-preparation 
requirements for all Federal Ballot Mail would significantly improve 
the quality of that data. This visibility will, in turn, put law 
enforcement in a better position to identify any potential issues 
regarding compliance with federal law that may merit further 
investigation.
    Weighing these benefits and the operational needs of the Postal 
Service, the rule is intended to minimize the burden and impact on 
voters and election officials, while still achieving the rule's 
purposes. Under this rule, states will retain complete autonomy to 
determine voter eligibility to use the mail to vote, as they do today. 
If their state complies with the rule's relatively modest mail 
preparation and data entry standards, voters should not experience any 
difference from the status quo. The Postal Service anticipates that all 
states will make a good faith effort to comply with the rule, 
consistent with the belief expressed by some commenters, thereby 
enabling eligible voters to continue to use the mail to vote. Overall, 
the rule imposes requirements that are rationally and carefully 
tailored to the underlying purposes of the rule. The Postal Service 
would also reiterate that the rule does not mandate that states 
administer elections in a ``one size fits all'' manner; on the 
contrary, state election laws and practices will continue to vary in 
accordance with state law, as states will retain control over the 
manner of their elections, unaltered by the rule. The rule requires 
merely that states that choose to use the U.S. mail as part of their 
elections adhere to certain standard mailpiece design and data 
reporting standards when sending Federal Ballot Mail.
    The Postal Service also notes that some commenters narrowly focused 
their concerns on the purportedly substantial costs and practical 
challenges that election officials would presently face in attempting 
to comply with the rule for the November 2026 general election. The 
Postal Service recognizes that the rule would require states to adjust 
their processes and adapt to the changes imposed by the rule, 
potentially incurring new costs. While the Postal Service has weighed 
these considerations, including the possibility that some jurisdictions 
would need to order new ballot envelopes and devote resources to 
complying with the new envelope-design standards and reporting 
requirements, those considerations have to be balanced against the 
benefits of the rule, and in particular the fact that these standards 
are necessary to ensure the faithful execution of federal law. Given 
that mail-in ballots subject to this rule are generally mailed in 
September or thereafter, an immediate effective date ensures the 
maximum possible time for election officials to adjust their ballot 
mail envelopes to meet the new preparation standards if necessary, and 
to prepare to submit data to the Portal once it becomes active. This 
promotes states' and political subdivisions' ability to successfully 
implement the rule prior to the 2026 general election with good faith 
efforts and the available postal resources, notwithstanding the 
comments that described this task as ``impossible.'' And despite any 
logistical or financial difficulties states may face complying with the 
rule, including some claims that immediate implementation would prove 
impossible, the visibility and law-enforcement benefits of the rule, 
including for this election cycle, are such that there is no compelling 
reason for any delay. In recognition of the potential burdens on 
election officials and the timeline involved, the Postal Service will 
make available considerable educational and other support resources 
discussed above to assist election officials with implementation and 
help facilitate timely compliance with the rule.
    The Postal Service has also considered alternatives to the proposed 
rule, including both more and less restrictive options. The Postal 
Service received comments proposing a number of alternatives including: 
using registered mail to transmit ballots; performing verification of 
additional forms of data (including name, address, or Return Federal 
Ballot Mail envelope IMb); expanding the rule to cover primaries or all 
voters; making all of the rule's provisions optional; eliminating 
verification and rejection procedures; and not requiring a unique IMb 
on return ballot envelopes.
    As explained above, the Postal Service believes the proposed rule, 
as modified in the final rule, is appropriate in scale and scope. A 
more restrictive approach is unnecessary to achieve the goals of the 
rule and realize the related benefits. At the same time, the 
sensitivity of Outbound Federal Ballot Mail, the importance of voter 
confidence and election security, and the ability to support law 
enforcement purposes that are necessary to ensure the faithful 
execution of federal law require the inclusion of the verification and 
rejection procedures as set forth in 704.24.5 in order to fulfill the 
purposes of the rule. A less restrictive approach would not achieve all 
of the rule's benefits. For example, scans from unique IMbs provide a 
level of visibility into individual mailpieces that is not possible 
using non-serialized IMbs. The Postal Service agrees with commenters 
that this visibility is dependent on the mailpieces being scanned, and 
believes that the potential for improved visibility made possible by 
the use of unique IMbs on both Outbound and Return Federal Ballot Mail 
better serves the intended goals of the rule than if a unique IMb were 
only on Outbound Federal Ballot Mail. Moreover, if the rule were not 
applied in a consistent, nationwide fashion (e.g., if its provisions 
only applied to some ballot mail, were optional, or if there were a 
phased roll-out), it may prevent the full benefits of the rule from 
being realized, prove unadministrable, and could potentially cause 
confusion and delays.
    The final rule creates an appropriate balance of the purported 
burdens

[[Page 54986]]

imposed by the rule against its intended benefits. As one commenter 
explained, election integrity and voter access are complementary goals. 
Any regulatory changes should strengthen public confidence while 
avoiding unnecessary obstacles to the timely and reliable delivery of 
election mail. This rule properly balances those considerations.

VI. Other Considerations

A. Postal Service Readiness

    Numerous commenters expressed concern over the Postal Service's 
ability to successfully implement this rule. They expressed concern 
over whether the Postal Service had the necessary financial resources 
and staffing capacity and conjectured that proposed rule would saddle 
the Postal Service with election administration functions; require 
additional clerks, mailpiece design personnel, information technology 
support staff, and other human resources; and impose new obligations on 
retail offices and field operations.
    Other commenters sought clarification about the training that 
postal employees would need to perform the new processes set forth in 
the rule. Other commenters, including some postal employees, questioned 
whether postal employees could satisfy their obligations under the 
Hatch Act and to the public under the rule.
    The Postal Service is prepared to implement the rule, consistent 
with its legal obligations and available resources. The Postal Service 
already possesses the necessary staffing capacity at BMEUs and retail 
locations as well as mail acceptance infrastructure necessary to 
administer the rule: wholly new institutional capacity does not need to 
be built from scratch. The Postal Service currently operates nationwide 
digital systems through the Business Customer Gateway and PostalOne!, 
and business mailers must already submit mailing documentation 
electronically. The Postal Service also maintains centralized support 
channels, including the MDA help desk. Furthermore, as stated in the 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the Postal Service has available or will 
soon publish resources to assist election officials with compliance, 
including technical instructions on barcode creation, service type 
identifiers, acceptance processes, file preparation, documentation 
submission, and entry of data into the proposed portal. The addition of 
a new compliance review for a small subset of overall mail volume is 
not expected to require additional staff or be a significant burden on 
employees. Since the rule builds on processes already in place for 
election mail, its implementation should not prove inordinately costly. 
The Postal Service is able to balance the cost of implementing the 
rule, including developing the Portal, with the costs required to 
fulfill its other core operational responsibilities.
    As explained above, there are only a few categories of employees 
who will be directly responsible for verifying compliance with the rule 
under 705.24.5, namely BMEU technicians, Retail clerks, and discrete 
support functions like employees in the PCSC. For employees in direct 
operational roles, the new pre-acceptance verification measures are 
similar to, and are no more onerous than, other mailing manifest 
reviews. With respect to other provisions in the rule, the Postal 
Service also recognizes that MDAs will see an increase in mailpiece 
design review requests under the rule. The Postal Service is committed 
to ensuring this process is completed in a timely manner, consistent 
with current customer expectations.
    The Postal Service agrees that proper training to ensure nationwide 
consistency is important. The Postal Service is developing specific 
training for employees who will be directly responsible for conducting 
verification under the rule. Retail clerks and BMEU technicians will be 
trained on how to identify Federal Outbound Ballot Mail and what the 
scanning verification process requires. The training will be rolled out 
and conducted consistently with the Postal Service's usual processes. 
Additionally, MDAs will receive training on the rule's design 
requirements and recordkeeping requirements.
    It is important to remember that the vast majority of employees 
will not experience a change in their responsibilities as a result of 
the rule. For example, letter carriers and employees in delivery and 
processing functions will not have any new responsibilities. These 
employees will continue to process and deliver ballot mail, including 
Federal Ballot Mail, and all other election mail, consistent with 
existing Postal Service processes, procedures, and guidance. Letter 
carriers and employees in processing and delivery functions will not 
validate, withhold, delay, or remove ballots in the mailstream.
    The rule's requirements should not impact how the Postal Service 
processes and delivers Federal Ballot Mail. Longstanding processing and 
delivery practices for completed ballots that enter the mainstream will 
remain unchanged. As noted, designing automation compatible mailpieces, 
inclusion of the Official Election Mail logo, serialized IMbs on both 
the outbound and return ballots, and MDA mailpiece review have long 
been key components of the Postal Service's best practices guidance for 
ballot mail. Ensuring compliance with these longstanding 
recommendations, together with verification processes for IMbs on 
Outbound Federal Ballot Mail, lie within the Postal Service's zone of 
competence, and can therefore be incorporated into the Postal Service's 
normal course of operations.
    The Postal Service would also note that the rule does not implicate 
the Hatch Act, as it neither directs nor authorizes any partisan 
political activity as defined by that Act by Postal Service employees.

B. Portal Security

    The Postal Service received a number of comments concerned that 
creating a centralized data repository with voter information would 
make elections less secure. These comments argued that creating a 
centralized Portal establishes a high-value target for state-sponsored 
cyberattacks, other data breaches, and election disruption, and that 
the recent rise of AI-enhanced hacking technology increases these 
risks. For these commenters, the value of the Portal is minimal because 
it is, they argue, largely duplicative of existing state systems, and, 
in their view, does not justify the risk. Commenters contend that 
decentralized election systems improve election security.
    Some commenters were concerned about the Postal Service's ability 
to maintain and protect data in complex, public-facing systems, with a 
few commenters suggesting technology, services, and other resources 
that the Postal Service could use to create the Portal. Commenters 
noted that system outages, technical malfunction or cyberattacks 
impacting the Portal could impact, or potentially halt, Outbound 
Federal Ballot mailings across multiple states simultaneously. Others 
emphasized that neither the Portal nor any related technical 
specifications are currently available; as a result, these commenters 
questioned whether election offices (especially those in small or 
under-resourced jurisdictions) would have the time and technical 
capacity to build the required data files immediately.
    The Postal Service has extensive experience in developing, 
maintaining, and safeguarding public-facing data systems. The Postal 
Service faces ongoing cyberthreats and challenges

[[Page 54987]]

that could directly impact customers, partners, and employees, and it 
is well prepared to defend against these threats. The Postal Service's 
Corporate Information Security Office (CISO) protects its critical 
stakeholders by safeguarding the postal network, monitoring threats, 
and responding to incidents. As with comparable organizations in the 
government and private-sector, cybersecurity is a top priority for the 
Postal Service.
    Against this backdrop, the Postal Service maintains a vast 
commercial public-facing website and has a number of existing systems 
for mailers to enter data to satisfy other mail preparation standards. 
It also has experience in quickly developing and deploying public-
facing websites, like the website created to facilitate ordering and 
distribution of COVID-19 test kits. These are high-volume systems that 
maintain sensitive data. The Postal Service has specific guidelines and 
protocols in place for protecting and handling the sensitive and 
critical data contained within these systems. In short, contrary to 
commenters' claims and concerns, the Postal Service has meaningful 
experience developing and operating a system like the Portal.
    The Portal will contain multi-layered security controls, including 
encrypted data transmission and storage, strict access management with 
multi-factor authentication, and role-based permissions. The system 
will be protected by enterprise-grade network defenses, real-time 
monitoring, and comprehensive audit logging, ensuring that sensitive 
data is accessible only to authorized officials and is retained 
securely.
    As discussed above in ``Operation of the Final Rule,'' there are 
free, optional tools available that can assist election officials and 
Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users in generating the data files necessary 
to satisfy the rule's data reporting requirements and ensure that the 
necessary information for Outbound Federal Ballot mailings is available 
to satisfy verification and be accepted into the mailstream. 
Jurisdictions using a vendor may already have such data files prepared 
as part of other mailing documentation. In either case, the burdens are 
modest and can be timely satisfied.

C. Other State Law Concerns

    Commenters, including election officials, raised concerns about the 
ability of election officials to satisfy the requirements of the rule 
while also complying with various state laws. For example, some 
comments argued that the obligation to provide Portal data for 
inclusion on a state-specific List could require election officials to 
choose between complying with state privacy laws or the rule. Other 
commenters questioned election officials' ability to satisfy the rule's 
requirements while also complying with state statutory timing 
requirements for requesting, processing, and issuing ballots. And 
others argued that the rule would impact state and local elections 
where consolidated ballots are used.
    The decision of how to arrange ballots is a matter for the states. 
Ballots that contain both federal and state or local elections are 
covered by the rule. States can easily avoid any effects on their state 
elections by either complying with the rule's requirements or by 
separating their federal ballots to exclude any non-federal elections. 
Either is permissible under the rule and would eliminate any impact on 
exclusively state or local elections.
    The rule is also not facially incompatible with the various timing 
provisions in state election law. The envelope design review, data 
entry, and verification processes set forth in the rule should be 
relatively quick to complete and should not significantly alter the 
timeline for election officials. The rule's requirements will permit an 
election official to prepare and send Outbound Federal Ballot Mail near 
election day, as they do now. And, once Outbound Federal Ballot Mail is 
accepted into the postal network, the Postal Service has a strong track 
record of promptly delivering ballots to and from voters.
    The rule also does not require that sensitive voter information be 
made public, like birthdates or social security numbers that may be 
protected from disclosure by state law. For one thing, the Portal and 
the Lists will not contain this kind of sensitive information; they 
include information that appears on the outside of the ballot mail 
envelopes. For another, the Lists and the underlying Portal data will 
not be made publicly available. There are existing statutory and 
regulatory protections against the disclosure of customer addresses and 
other sensitive information. For example, while 39 U.S.C. 410 provides 
that the Postal Service is subject to the Freedom of Information Act 
and the Privacy Act, it limits the scope of access to certain kinds of 
postal records. In particular, Section 410(c)(1) provides that neither 
law requires the Postal Service to release ``the name or address, past 
or present, of any postal patron.'' Similarly, postal regulations 
provide that disclosures of address information may be made to state 
and local governments and law enforcement agencies, but generally 
prohibit disclosure of an individual person's mailing address to a non-
government individual except in limited, enumerated circumstances. 39 
CFR 265.14(d)(2)-(5), (9). Furthermore, as discussed above and 
reiterated below, many of these privacy concerns may be resolved by the 
information contained in the SOR for the Portal, which was published in 
the Federal Register on July 17, 2026.

D. Tribal Issues

    The Postal Service received a small number of comments arguing that 
the proposed rule did not meaningfully address how the rule's 
requirements would affect tribal communities. Commenters were concerned 
about the ability of election officials to generate unique IMbs for 
nontraditional mailing addresses used by many Native American 
households, and about the impact of the rule more broadly given the 
unique mail delivery challenges that can impact these communities. 
Other commenters advocated for tribal consultation prior issuance of a 
final rule. In particular, one commenter argued that the rule should 
not be finalized until the Postal Service conducted formal consultation 
with federally recognized tribes pursuant to Executive Order 13175.
    As the Postal Service has explained, the rule does not require any 
change to existing addressing practices. It only requires that the 
address uploaded into the Portal be the address used on the Outbound 
Federal Ballot Mail envelope. Election officials may continue to 
address ballots to nontraditional addresses and may generate unique 
IMbs for these addresses to comply with the rule. As discussed above, 
election officials may be able to use the free IMsb tool to generate a 
unique IMb even if these addresses cannot be validated through DPV.
    With respect to consultation, the Postal Service will continue to 
work with tribal stakeholders as part of its broader outreach, 
education, and implementation efforts. However, Executive Order 13175 
does not require the Postal Service to engage in such consultations. 
Only agencies covered by the Paperwork Reduction Act are subject to 
that Executive Order and, as noted above, the Postal Service is outside 
the Paperwork Reduction Act's scope. Shane, 658 F. Supp. at 915; accord 
Kuzma, 798 F.2d at 32. Therefore, consultation under Executive Order 
13175 is not required prior to finalizing the rule.

[[Page 54988]]

E. Requests for More Information

    The Postal Service received several comments requesting detailed 
analysis about the potential impact of the proposed rule and 
recommending that the results of any such analysis be published before 
issuing a final rule. For example, requests were made for a state-by-
state analysis of the rule's impact; impact assessments for Tribal 
communities and UOCAVA voters (despite the express exclusion of UOCAVA 
ballots from the rule's scope); detailed information about the 
development of this rule and the Portal; an evaluation of any 
differential administrative burdens based on the size or resources of 
election jurisdictions; an assessment of the anticipated ballot-
rejection rate under DMM 705.24.5; and a formal disability 
accessibility impact assessment before finalizing any changes to ballot 
mail procedures.
    The Postal Service declines to conduct, publish, or otherwise 
disclose any additional analysis or information concerning the rule or 
Portal. The Postal Service has received sufficient information through 
public comments to assess the impact of the proposed rule and issue 
this final rule. Each state and political subdivision thereof may 
choose different means to satisfy the rule's mail preparation and data 
entry requirements based on their own capabilities and resources. As a 
result, the impact on states may vary but these decisions are not 
dictated by the Postal Service. Similarly, the Postal Service 
anticipates that the rejection rate of Outbound Federal Ballot Mail 
will be low, as states need only comply with the final rule's 
relatively modest mail preparation and data entry standards.

F. System of Records Notice

    The Postal Service received numerous comments urging it to publish 
a new SORN for the Federal Ballot Mail Portal in accordance with the 
Privacy Act. Commenters sought information about retention periods for 
Portal data, access to that data, and limits on disclosure, among other 
things. While these comments are outside the scope of this rulemaking, 
the Postal Service separately took steps necessary for the creation of 
a SORN, as stated in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. On July 17, 
2026, the SORN was published in the Federal Register. 91 FR 44880. As 
explained in the SORN, a SOR will need to be in place to implement this 
final rule, because no data will be collected through the Portal or 
disclosed until a SOR is in place. The SORN provides details regarding 
retention periods, access, disclosure, and the other matters raised by 
commenters. Comments will be accepted on the SORN for 30 days. 
Interested parties were invited to submit comments.

VII. Suggested Revisions to the Proposed Rule

A. UOCAVA

    In the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the Postal Service 
specifically invited comments on the exemption in the proposed rule for 
UOCAVA voters. Many commenters supported this exemption. Other 
commenters, while supporting the exemption, believed that the rule's 
express exclusion of UOCAVA ballots was insufficient to exclude or 
protect UOCAVA voters. These commenters asked for more assurances and 
safeguards to ensure UOCAVA ballots would not be impacted by the rule, 
as errors could occur that would accidentally apply the rule's 
standards to UOCAVA ballots.
    Some commenters opposed the exemption for UOCAVA ballots. These 
commenters argued that ``[a]pplying the E.O. 14399 framework''--such as 
enhanced tracking and participation lists--to UOCAVA ballots would 
strengthen integrity without undermining access, while aligning with 
existing Postal Service special handling for election mail to and from 
military and overseas voters. Excluding them, in the opinion of some 
commenters, leaves a significant portion of ballot mail for federal 
elections outside the new security measures, and including UOCAVA 
ballots would create a more comprehensive, uniform system that better 
serves all eligible voters while deterring unlawful use of the mail.
    The Postal Service finds that the proposed rule provides sufficient 
safeguards for UOCAVA voters as drafted and declines to make additional 
changes. Further safeguards and assurances are unnecessary because 
these voters will experience no change as a result of proper 
implementation of the rule given its exemption of UOCAVA ballots. At 
the same time, the exemption does not create an anomaly or otherwise 
undermine the stated purpose of the rule. Rather, it reflects the 
unique logistical circumstances that overseas and military voters and 
their family members face, consistent with the statutory scheme enacted 
by Congress.
    Separately, other comments sought clarification on how the Postal 
Service would distinguish between ballots sent pursuant to UOCAVA and 
other mail-in or absentee ballots. Existing postal regulations require 
that ballots sent to and from UOCAVA voters include unique identifiers 
on the exterior of the envelope that are not present on the ballot 
envelopes for non-UOCAVA voters. Specifically, DMM 703.8.8.5 requires 
that envelopes for mailing and receiving absentee ballots under UOCAVA 
must contain the following words: ``No Postage Necessary in the U.S. 
Mail--DMM 703.8.0.'' Additionally, balloting envelopes for UOCAVA 
voters contain the statement: ``U.S. Postage Paid 39 U.S.C. 3406.'' 
These indicia enable the Postal Service to distinguish between UOCAVA 
ballots and ballots that fall within the scope of the rule. As 
explained above, UOCAVA ballots should be segregated from Outbound 
Federal Ballot Mail when presented for mailing. This will help ensure 
that both UOCAVA ballots and Outbound Federal Ballot Mail covered by 
the rule are properly accepted under applicable rules. Therefore, 
revisions to the proposed rule are unnecessary to ensure that UOCAVA 
ballots are distinguishable from Federal Ballot Mail.

B. Primaries

    The Postal Service received several comments about primary 
elections specifically. Describing primaries as gateways to federal 
general elections, and further noting that in noncompetitive districts, 
primaries may effectively determine the outcomes of federal races, 
commenters argued that the rule's exclusion of primary elections 
creates inconsistencies in tracking, verification, and security 
standards. Commenters contended that the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
inadequately explained why fraud prevention and law enforcement 
rationales for ballots for general, special, and runoff federal 
elections would not apply equally to primaries. These commenters opined 
that voters and election officials would benefit from uniform Postal 
Service requirements throughout the election cycle.
    The Postal Service reaffirms that, consistent with the framework 
for the proposed rule set forth in Executive Order 14399, the rule will 
not apply to primaries. Primary elections involve the selection of 
political party nominees through procedures chosen by the parties 
themselves, not the election of federal officials; as such, they fall 
outside the rule's scope and reach.

[[Page 54989]]

C. Address Confidentiality Protection and Other Voter Confidentiality 
Programs

    As some commenters pointed out, survivors of domestic and sexual 
violence and/or stalking may experience significant privacy concerns 
related to the voter registration process. The fear of being located 
may deter such victims from voting in person, and even from registering 
to vote. Furthermore, as commenters noted, survivors of domestic 
violence, sexual violence, and/or stalking often relocate multiple 
times and/or postpone updating public records until adequate safety 
measures are in place. For these reasons, commenters concluded, many 
survivors rely crucially on the ability to vote by mail.
    According to commenters, to assist such survivors, forty-seven 
states have instituted Address Confidentiality Protection programs 
(``ACPs'')--confidential mail forwarding services available to 
survivors of domestic violence, stalking, sexual violence, child 
abduction and/or human trafficking who have recently relocated to a 
location unknown to their abuser or stalker. To ensure participant 
safety, commenters explained, ACPs typically shield participants from 
appearing in public voter files, usually by substituting alternative 
addresses or keeping records entirely offline. Often, ACP registration 
is entered manually in a locked file and not entered into the state's 
typical voter registration system. The ballot is then mailed to the 
state's substitute address, which, by design, differs from the voter's 
confidential actual address. In some instances, even an individual's 
name is protected under ACPs. Some commenters also noted that other 
states have additional privacy protections in place for participants.
    Some commenters voiced concern that including information about 
these voters in the Portal and the contemplated exchange of this 
information through the state-specific Mail-In and Absentee 
Participation Lists would compromise ACP and other confidentiality 
programs and may call into question compliance with certain state 
requirements. One commenter noted a lack of guidance as to whether 
states would be required to upload survivors' actual physical addresses 
to the Portal, or whether the Postal Service (or other entities within 
the federal government) would question mailing ballots to a potentially 
large number of voters registered to a single alternative mailing 
address. Other commenters criticized the proposed rule for allegedly 
increasing risks to survivor safety. One commenter cited recent large-
scale privacy breaches affecting government agencies and suggested that 
Mail-In and Absentee Participation Lists in the Postal Service's 
custody (including, presumably, the private information of voters 
protected under ACPs) could fall prey to such a breach.
    The Postal Service clarifies that the rule requires that the name 
and address used on the outside of a ballot envelope be submitted to 
the Portal; it would not require that confidential information known 
only to the state be provided. The information in the Portal would also 
not be publicly disclosed, and the Postal Service has taken appropriate 
cybersecurity measures with respect to the Portal cybersecurity as 
discussed above. For these reasons, the proposed rule is compatible 
with state ACP programs.

D. Alternative Operational Approaches

    A small number of commenters recommended that the rule be 
accompanied by ambitious operational changes, including a dedicated 
postal-run ``state ballot box'' into which only ballots would be 
placed, the establishment of a separate processing and delivery system 
for ballots, and fundamental Mailer ID redesign (a key component of 
IMbs).
    The Postal Service declines to adopt these proposals. Such large-
scale (and costly) operational changes are not necessary to accomplish 
the rule's objectives.

VIII. Revisions Adopted in the Final Rule

    Very few comments included recommended changes to the rule itself. 
The Postal Service received several suggestions that would result in a 
more expansive final rule ; however, these suggestions fall outside the 
scope of this rulemaking and the Postal Service's authority. For 
instance, a few commenters encouraged the Postal Service to add 
provisions into the rule to verify a voter's citizenship status as a 
condition of mail acceptance. Other commenters advocated for 
exclusively in-person voting, and still others proposed only accepting 
ballots that are received by Election Day. The Postal Service also 
received comments recommending a narrower final rule that would retain 
the proposed rule's provisions concerning ballot envelope design for 
Federal Ballot Mail, in 705.24.3, and eliminate the rule's other 
substantive provisions, namely 705.24.4 and 705.24.5. Within the scope 
of this rulemaking, the Postal Service is making several changes in 
response to the concerns discussed above.
    First, the Postal Service makes clear that the verification process 
set forth in 705.24.5 (i.e., mail sent by authorized ballot mailers) 
does not apply to Return Federal Ballot Mail. Many comments 
demonstrated a factual misunderstanding about the inapplicability of 
these verification procedures to return ballots. Given the widespread 
confusion, the Postal Service believes that clarifying the final rule 
will reduce voter confusion and help ensure consistent implementation 
of the rule. However, as noted above, for individuals transmitting 
Return Federal Ballot mail to be in compliance with this rule, Return 
Federal Ballot Mail must be mailed in an envelope that meets the 
requirements of 705.24.3.2. As under existing law, voters may use their 
residential mailbox, any retail counter, or other authorized means to 
transmit their compliant Return Federal Ballot Mail.
    In the event a voter loses or misplaces the Return Federal Ballot 
Mail envelope provided by the Authorized Ballot Mailer, or if the 
Authorized Ballot Mailer fails to provide the voter with a compliant 
Return Federal Ballot Mail envelope, the voter should request a 
replacement envelope from the Authorized Ballot Mailer that conforms to 
705.24.3.2. The Postal Service may also provide such other means as 
reasonably determined by the Postal Service for transmitting Return 
Federal Ballot Mail consistent with the requirements of this rule. This 
will provide visibility and scan data for these ballot envelopes when 
processed on the Postal Service's automated equipment.
    Second, there was confusion over how the MDA review requirements 
would be verified and enforced, and the circumstances under which the 
MDA review requirements could lead to an Outbound Federal Ballot 
mailing being rejected. As set forth above, certification of MDA review 
will not be verified when an Outbound Federal Ballot mailing is 
presented for acceptance. Instead, prior to uploading data into the 
Portal, Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users will be prompted to certify 
that their ballot envelope design has been submitted for review by an 
MDA and that the MDA has provided feedback. If they do not provide such 
certification, Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users will be unable to 
upload data into the Portal. To reduce confusion and clarify the 
responsibilities of Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users, the Postal 
Service is amending the language in 705.24.3.1, 705.24.3.2, and 
705.24.4.2.f, and striking 705.24.5.3.b from the final rule.

[[Page 54990]]

    Third, the Postal Service is amending the language in 705.24.3.1.c 
and 705.23.3.2.c to make clear that Authorized Ballot Mailers are 
responsible for creating IMbs. The Postal Service is also amending the 
language in 705.24.4.2.b.3 and 705.24.4.2.b.4 to clarify that the 
unique IMb submitted into the Portal is the IMb printed on the Outbound 
and Return Federal Ballot Mail envelopes. These clarifications are 
intended to reduce confusion and provide clarity for Federal Ballot 
Mail Portal users; they do not substantively change the rule's data 
reporting requirements.
    Fourth, the Postal Service is amending the language in 705.24.5.2 
to clarify that only commercial mailings are subject to commercial 
mailing standards and regulations. There was confusion over whether 
non-commercial mailings must be entered at BMEUs or otherwise meet 
commercial mailing standards. The Postal Service has simplified the 
language in 705.24.5.2 to help avoid confusion.
    Finally, the Postal Service is changing the term ``Ballot Portal 
User'' to ``Federal Ballot Mail Portal User'' to clarify the 
relationship between Federal Ballot Mail, the rule's data standards, 
and the Federal Ballot Mail Portal. The Postal Service's hope is that 
this reduces confusion about the application of rule's data-entry 
requirements to other ballot mail as well as confusion about data entry 
that needs to be performed at the state-level.

IX. Explanation of Final Rule

    After evaluating the comments, the Postal Service is adopting the 
new DMM Section 705.24. The final text of DMM Section 705.24 
incorporates the revisions noted above. Accordingly, the Postal Service 
adopts the described changes to Mailing Standards of the United States 
Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual (DMM), incorporated by reference 
in the Code of Federal Regulations. We will publish an appropriate 
amendment to 39 CFR part 111 to reflect these changes.

List of Subjects in 39 CFR Part 111

    Administrative practice and procedure, Postal Service.

    Accordingly, the Postal Service amends Mailing Standards of the 
United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual (DMM), incorporated 
by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations as follows (see 39 CFR 
111.1):

PART 111--[AMENDED]

0
1. The authority citation for 39 CFR Part 111 continues to read as 
follows:

    Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552(a); 13 U.S.C. 301-307; 18 U.S.C. 1692-
1737; 39 U.S.C. 101, 401-404, 414, 416, 3001-3018, 3201-3220, 3401-
3406, 3621, 3622, 3626, 3629, 3631-3633, 3641, 3681-3685, and 5001.


0
2. Revise Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, 
Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) as follows:

Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail 
Manual (DMM)

* * * * *

700 Special Standards

* * * * *

705 Advanced Preparation and Special Postage Payment Systems

* * * * *
    [Insert after 705.23 the following:]

24.0 Ballot Mail for Federal Elections

24.1 Definitions

    For the purposes of Section 705.24, the following definitions 
apply:
    a. Authorized ballot mailer means an election official of a state 
or a political subdivision thereof who is responsible for sending mail-
in or absentee ballots to eligible voters of that state or political 
subdivision; or an individual or entity, such as a mail service 
provider, that an election official has authorized to send mail-in or 
absentee ballots by mail on the election official's behalf.
    b. Federal Ballot Mail Portal User means the chief election 
official of each state and any individual or entity, such as a mail 
service provider or an election official of that state or a political 
subdivision thereof, authorized by the chief election official to 
provide information through the Postal Service Federal Ballot Mail 
Portal as described in 24.4.2.b.
    c. Mail-in or absentee ballot means a physical ballot, other than a 
ballot provided at a designated polling place, that may be used to cast 
a vote in a federal election. For the purposes of Section 705.24, a 
mail-in or absentee ballot does not include a ballot mailed under 
703.8.8 or 703.8.9.
    d. Outbound Federal Ballot Mail means any mailpiece containing a 
mail-in or absentee ballot for a federal election sent from an 
authorized ballot mailer to an individual voter.
    e. Return Federal Ballot Mail means any mailpiece containing a 
mail-in or absentee ballot for a federal election sent from an 
individual voter to an election office, or an authorized recipient of 
ballot mail, of a state or a political subdivision thereof.
    f. Federal election means any general, special, or runoff election 
for the office of President or Vice President; or of Senator or 
Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the 
Congress. This definition does not include primary elections.
    g. State includes all 50 states, as well as the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and 
the Northern Mariana Islands.
    h. Intelligent Mail barcode (IMb) has the meaning provided in 
204.1.2.1.
    i. Official Election Mail logo is a unique registered trademark 
designed exclusively for inclusion in the design of Official Election 
Mail. The conditions of use are provided in Publication 631, Official 
Election Mail--Graphic Guidelines and Logos.

24.2 Optional 90-Day Pre-Mailing Notice

    A state's chief election official may notify the Postal Service, no 
fewer than 90 days prior to a federal election, of its intent to allow 
for mail-in or absentee ballots in the federal election to be 
transmitted by the Postal Service. This notification should indicate 
whether the state intends to submit to the Postal Service the 
information described in 24.4.2.b to the Postal Service Federal Ballot 
Mail Portal as set forth in 24.4.2.d.
    A state's failure to provide the optional 90-day notice to the 
Postal Service under 24.2 will not prevent enrollment under 24.4.

24.3 Federal Ballot Mail

24.3.1 Outbound Federal Ballot Mail Envelope Standards

    Outbound Federal Ballot Mail must be mailed in an envelope that:
    a. Includes the official Election Mail logo;
    b. Is automation compatible; and
    c. Bears the voter's unique IMb, as created by the Authorized 
Ballot Mailer, with the Delivery Point ZIP Code embedded and a Federal 
Ballot Mail Service Type Identifier (STID).
    Outbound Federal Ballot Mail envelopes must be submitted to the 
Postal Service for mailpiece design review and feedback.

24.3.2 Return Federal Ballot Mail Envelope Standards

    Return Federal Ballot Mail must be mailed in an envelope that:
    a. Includes the official Election Mail logo;
    b. Is automation compatible; and

[[Page 54991]]

    c. Bears the voter's unique IMb, as created by the Authorized 
Ballot Mailer, with the Delivery Point ZIP Code embedded and a Federal 
Ballot Mail STID.
    Return Federal Ballot Mail envelopes must be submitted to the 
Postal Service for mailpiece design review and feedback.

24.3.3 Authorized Ballot Mailer Responsibility

    Authorized ballot mailers are responsible for barcode creation 
under 24.3.1 and 24.3.2 as well as envelope design and printing for all 
ballot mail.

24.3.4 Additional Recommendations

    For additional information on the Postal Service's recommendations 
for all ballot mail, see DMM 703.8.4.

24.4 State-Specific Mail-In and Absentee Participation Lists

24.4.1 Postal Service Federal Ballot Mail Portal User Registration

    To access the Postal Service Federal Ballot Mail Portal, each 
Federal Ballot Mail Portal User must have a registered account. 
Registration must be completed no later than two business days before 
an Outbound Federal Ballot mailing. The chief election official of each 
state is responsible for authorizing the Federal Ballot Mail Portal 
Users for their state including political subdivisions thereof.

24.4.2 Enrollment

    a. Any state that intends to receive mail-in or absentee ballots 
from individual voters through the Postal Service must ensure that such 
individuals have been enrolled with the Postal Service for inclusion on 
the state's Mail-In and Absentee Participation List.
    b. In order for an individual to be enrolled with the Postal 
Service for inclusion on a state's Mail-In and Absentee Participation 
List, a Federal Ballot Mail Portal User in that state must provide the 
following information through the Postal Service Federal Ballot Mail 
Portal:
    1. Name of individual receiving a mail-in or absentee ballot;
    2. Address of individual receiving a mail-in or absentee ballot;
    3. Unique IMb applied on the Outbound Federal Ballot Mail envelope 
pursuant to 24.3.1;
    4. Unique IMb applied on the Return Federal Ballot Mail envelope 
pursuant to 24.3.2; and
    5. Originating election office state.
    c. An individual will be deemed enrolled with the Postal Service 
for inclusion on a state's Mail-In and Absentee Participation List as 
of the date that the information in 24.4.2.b is provided.
    d. Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users must provide the information in 
24.4.2.b at least 30 days before the date of the federal election, to 
the extent practicable, or by the date on which mail-in or absentee 
ballots may begin to be mailed under state law. Federal Ballot Mail 
Portal Users may make supplemental submissions to enroll additional 
individuals or modify prior submissions until the last day that ballots 
may be mailed out to individuals under state law. A separate submission 
is required in connection with each Outbound Federal Ballot mailing, 
regardless of the number of mailpieces in the mailing.
    e. The information provided in 24.4.2.b must meet the Postal 
Service's technical specifications for the Federal Ballot Mail Portal.
    f. Before providing the information in 24.4.2.b, Federal Ballot 
Mail Portal Users must certify in the Federal Ballot Mail Portal that 
any mail-in or absentee ballots their state's authorized ballot mailers 
provide to the Postal Service for mailing have been submitted for 
review and that they have received feedback consistent with 24.3.1 and 
24.3.2 Federal Ballot Mail Portal Users will not be able to enter the 
information in 24.4.2.b into the Federal Ballot Mail Portal if the 
certification is incomplete.

24.4.3 Provision of State-Specific Lists

    On or about the date of the federal election, the Postal Service 
will provide a state-specific Mail-In and Absentee Participant List to 
each state's chief election official that contains the name and address 
of each individual in that state who was enrolled through the process 
set forth in 24.4.2, along with the unique IMb associated with the 
Outbound and Return Federal Ballot Mail sent to each such individual.

24.5 Outbound Federal Ballot Mail Verification

24.5.1 Procedure

    Using the information provided in 24.4.2, the Postal Service will 
review mailings identified as Outbound Federal Ballot Mail prior to 
acceptance to evaluate whether the mailing meets the standards in 
24.3.1 and is being sent to individuals who have been enrolled with the 
Postal Service for inclusion on the state's Mail-In and Absentee 
Participation List, consistent with the technical specifications for 
the Federal Ballot Mail Portal.

24.5.2 Authorized Verification

    Mailings identified as Outbound Federal Ballot Mail are verified by 
Postal Service employees when presented for acceptance. Outbound 
Federal Ballot Mail must be entered at a facility that performs 
business mail acceptance functions or at a Postal Service retail 
counter. Commercial mailings must comply with applicable requirements. 
Postal Service personnel are not authorized to open mail sealed against 
inspection, except under circumstances described in ASM 274. The Postal 
Service's acceptance of Outbound Federal Ballot Mail does not 
constitute verified compliance.

24.5.3 Noncompliance

    a. Mailings that do not comply with 24.5.1 and 24.5.2 will not be 
accepted and will be returned to the authorized ballot mailer. The 
authorized ballot mailer or Federal Ballot Mail Portal User must 
address the error(s) before resubmitting the mailing.
    b. An authorized ballot mailer may request further review by the 
Postal Service if Outbound Federal Ballot Mail is not accepted.
    c. The Postal Service assumes no responsibility for any outbound 
ballot mailing presented until it is accepted into the mail. The Postal 
Service is not responsible for service delays when the Federal Ballot 
Mail Portal User or authorized ballot mailer does not meet the 
applicable preparation or entry standards.
    d. Authorized ballot mailers must comply with all applicable postal 
laws and regulations governing mailability and preparation for mailing, 
as well as nonpostal laws and regulations on the possession, treatment, 
transmission, or transfer of particular matter.

24.5.4 Return Federal Ballot Mail

    705.24.5 does not apply to Return Federal Ballot Mail.

24.6 Non-Interference With State or Federal Election Laws

    This rule relates only to the use of the U.S. Mail. The Postal 
Service does not purport to alter the eligibility of any individual to 
vote under state or federal law. The Postal Service does not have any 
legal responsibility for management of state voter rolls or 
administration of federal elections within each state. States are fully 
responsible for the

[[Page 54992]]

contents of each State's Mail-In and Absentee Participation List.
* * * * *

Colleen Hibbert-Kapler,
Attorney, Ethics and Legal Compliance.
[FR Doc. 2026-17238 Filed 8-21-26; 9:00 pm]
BILLING CODE 7710-12-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>