<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 157 (Monday, August 17, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 157 (Monday, August 17, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 53191-53194]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-16701]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

27 CFR Part 9

[Docket No. TTB-2024-0007; T.D. TTB-206; Ref: Notice No. 235]
RIN 1513-AD08


Establishment of the Columbia Hills Viticultural Area

AGENCY: Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Treasury.

ACTION: Final rule; Treasury decision.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) establishes 
the 29,387-acre ``Columbia Hills'' American viticultural area (AVA) in 
Klickitat County, Washington. The newly established AVA is located 
entirely within the existing Columbia Valley viticultural area. TTB 
designates viticultural areas to allow vintners to better describe the 
origin of their wines and to allow consumers to better identify wines 
they may purchase.

DATES: This final rule is effective September 16, 2026.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Karen A. Thornton, Regulations and 
Rulings Division, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G 
Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005; phone 202-453-1039, ext. 175.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(4), a 
summary of this rule may be found at <a href="https://www.regulations.gov/docket/TTB-2024-0007">https://www.regulations.gov/docket/TTB-2024-0007</a>.

Background on Viticultural Areas

TTB Authority

    Section 105(e) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act), 
27 U.S.C. 205(e), authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary) 
to prescribe regulations for the labeling of wine, distilled spirits, 
and malt beverages. The FAA Act provides that these regulations should, 
among other things, prohibit consumer deception and the use of 
misleading statements on labels and ensure that labels provide the 
consumer with adequate information as to the identity and quality of 
the product. The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) 
administers the FAA Act pursuant to section 1111(d) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, codified at 6 U.S.C. 531(d). The Secretary has 
delegated certain administrative and enforcement authorities to the TTB 
Administrator through Treasury Order 120-01.

[[Page 53192]]

    Part 4 of the TTB regulations (27 CFR part 4) authorizes TTB to 
establish definitive viticultural areas and regulate the use of their 
names as appellations of origin on wine labels and in wine 
advertisements. Part 9 of the TTB regulations (27 CFR part 9) sets 
forth standards for the preparation and submission to TTB of petitions 
for the establishment or modification of American viticultural areas 
(AVAs) and lists the approved AVAs.

Definition

    Section 4.25(e)(1)(i) of the TTB regulations (27 CFR 4.25(e)(1)(i)) 
defines a viticultural area for American wine as a delimited grape-
growing region having distinguishing features as described in part 9 of 
the regulations and, once approved, a name and a delineated boundary 
codified in part 9 of the regulations. These designations allow 
vintners and consumers to attribute a given quality, reputation, or 
other characteristic of a wine made from grapes grown in an area to the 
wine's geographic origin. The establishment of AVAs allows vintners to 
describe more accurately the origin of their wines to consumers and 
helps consumers to identify wines they may purchase. Establishment of 
an AVA is neither an approval nor an endorsement by TTB of the wine 
produced in that area.

Requirements

    Section 4.25(e)(2) of the TTB regulations (27 CFR 4.25(e)(2)) 
outlines the procedure for proposing an AVA and allows any interested 
party to petition TTB to establish a grape-growing region as an AVA. 
Section 9.12 of the TTB regulations (27 CFR 9.12) prescribes standards 
for petitions to establish or modify AVAs. Petitions to establish an 
AVA must include the following:
    <bullet> Evidence that the area within the proposed AVA boundary is 
nationally or locally known by the AVA name specified in the petition;
    <bullet> An explanation of the basis for defining the boundary of 
the proposed AVA;
    <bullet> A narrative description of the features of the proposed 
AVA affecting viticulture, such as climate, geology, soils, physical 
features, and elevation, that make the proposed AVA distinctive and 
distinguish it from adjacent areas outside the proposed AVA;
    <bullet> If the proposed AVA is to be established within, or 
overlapping, an existing AVA, an explanation that both identifies the 
attributes of the proposed AVA that are consistent with the existing 
AVA and explains how the proposed AVA is sufficiently distinct from the 
existing AVA and therefore appropriate for separate recognition;
    <bullet> The appropriate United States Geological Survey (USGS) 
map(s) showing the location of the proposed AVA, with the boundary of 
the proposed AVA clearly drawn thereon; and
    <bullet> A detailed narrative description of the proposed AVA 
boundary based on USGS map markings.

Columbia Hills Petition

    TTB received a petition to establish the ``Columbia Hills'' AVA 
submitted on behalf of the owner of Cascade Cliffs Vineyard and Winery, 
which is located within the proposed AVA. The proposed Columbia Hills 
AVA is located in Klickitat County, Washington, and is entirely within 
the established Columbia Valley AVA (27 CFR 9.74). Within the proposed 
AVA, there are approximately 338 acres of vineyards owned by 19 
different property owners, as well as 4 wineries. The distinguishing 
features of the proposed Columbia Hills are its topography, soils, and 
climate.
    The proposed AVA is situated on the southern slopes of the Columbia 
Hills, a 35-mile-long ridgeline that parallels the north side of the 
Columbia River between Rowena Gap and the mouth of Rock Creek in 
Klickitat County, Washington. Erosion of the generally flat-lying 
layers of bedrock by ice-age flooding created a series of south-facing 
stepped terraces within the proposed AVA. Large, gently-sloped gravel 
bars deposited by ice-age floods also exist within the proposed AVA. 
The petition states that these gently-sloped terraces and gravel bars 
provide excellent locations for vineyards within the otherwise steeply 
sloped valley of the Columbia River.
    The soils of the proposed Columbia Hills AVA are divided into two 
main soil map units--the Cheviot--Horseflat--Rockly--Kiona unit, which 
is described as ``well-drained soils that formed in colluvium and 
residuum derived from basalt mixed with loess;'' and the Ewall-
Dallesport-Rock Outcrop unit, which consists of wind-deposited sand 
that was draped over the bedrock and gravel bars that were left behind 
when the ice-age floods ceased. The soils of the proposed AVA are well 
drained to excessively well drained and are typically much coarser than 
the loess-based soils that are common elsewhere in the Columbia River 
basin. The petition states that the coarse soils warm more quickly than 
finer soils and encourage vines to root deeply.
    According to the petition, 80 percent of the land in the proposed 
Columbia Hills AVA is within a mile of the Columbia River, which acts 
as a thermal reservoir to moderate the climate near its shores. Due to 
its proximity to the river, the proposed AVA generally has warmer 
growing season temperatures than the surrounding regions, particularly 
during the early morning hours. Average growing season temperatures 
within the proposed AVA range from 63.9 to 67.7 degrees Fahrenheit (F), 
with average growing season maximum temperatures between 74.5 and 80.2 
degrees F and average growing season minimum temperatures between 53 
and 55.3 degrees F.
    The average number of frost-free days within the proposed AVA 
ranges between 194 and 254 days. The average number of growing degree 
days (GDDs) \1\ ranges from 3,091 to 3,588. Average annual rainfall 
amounts within the proposed AVA are generally between 10 and 20 inches. 
The petition states that the warm climate of the proposed AVA aids and 
accelerates the ripening of grapes and allows for the cultivation of 
warmer climate grape varietals such as Grenache and Mourvedre.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ See Albert J. Winkler et al., General Viticulture (Berkeley: 
University of California Press, 2nd ed.), pages 61-64 (1974). In the 
Winkler climate classification system, annual heat accumulation 
during the growing season, measured in annual GDDs, defines climatic 
regions. One GDD accumulates for each degree Fahrenheit (F) that a 
day's mean temperature is above 50 degrees F, the minimum 
temperature required for grapevine growth.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    To the north of the proposed AVA, the topography is much steeper, 
higher, and less impacted by ice-age flooding than the proposed AVA. 
Soils are generally deep and derived from loess. Growing season average 
temperatures are lower, ranging from 57 to 59.5 degrees F, as are 
average growing season maximum and minimum temperatures, which range 
from 72 to 77 degrees F and 42 to 43 degrees F, respectively. Average 
annual GDD accumulations to the north of the proposed AVA are also 
lower, ranging from 1,834 to 2,309 GDDs. The average frost-free period 
to the north ranges from 142 to 164 days.
    To the east of the proposed Columbia Hills AVA is the established 
The Burn of Columbia Valley AVA (27 CFR 9.276), which is relatively 
flat and has higher elevations that were less impacted by ice-age 
floods. The soils are primarily from the Van Nostern--Morrow--Bakeoven 
soil unit and contain large amounts of loess. Annual precipitation 
rates average less than 10 inches.
    South of the proposed AVA, elevations are generally lower and the 
slopes have a northerly aspect. Soils are generally deep and derived 
from loess.

[[Page 53193]]

Temperatures are lower than within the proposed AVA, with average 
growing season temperatures ranging from 58 to 59.7 degrees F. Average 
annual maximum and minimum growing season temperatures range from 70 to 
75 degrees F and 44 to 46 degrees F, respectively. The average frost-
free period ranges from 163 to 174 days, and annual GDD accumulations 
range from 2,006 to 2,255 GDDs.
    West of the proposed Columbia Hills AVA is the established Columbia 
Gorge AVA (27 CFR 9.178), which has higher elevations and a more 
diverse topography. Soils within the established Columbia Gorge AVA are 
also more diverse than within the proposed AVA due to large variations 
in bedrock, elevation, and slope angles. Temperatures are lower to the 
west of the proposed AVA, with average growing season temperatures 
ranging from 58.7 to 62 degrees F. Average GDD accumulations range from 
2,107 to 2,647 GDDs.

Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Comments Received

    TTB published Notice No. 235 in the Federal Register on December 5, 
2024 (89 FR 96623), proposing to establish the Columbia Hills AVA. In 
the notice, TTB summarized the evidence from the petition regarding the 
name, boundary, and distinguishing features of the proposed AVA. The 
notice also included the information from the petition comparing the 
distinguishing features of the proposed AVA to the surrounding areas. 
For a detailed description of the evidence and for a detailed 
comparison of the proposed AVA to the surrounding areas, see Notice No. 
235.
    In Notice No. 235, TTB solicited comments on the accuracy of the 
name, boundary, and other required information submitted in support of 
the petition. In addition, given the proposed Columbia Hills AVA's 
location within the Columbia Valley AVA, TTB solicited comments on 
whether the evidence submitted in the petition sufficiently 
differentiates it from the established AVA. TTB also requested comments 
on whether the features of the proposed AVA are so distinguishable from 
the established AVA that the proposed AVA should no longer be part of 
the established AVA. The comment period closed February 3, 2025.
    TTB received five comments in response to Notice No. 235, four of 
which specifically support the proposed AVA. One comment from a 
representative of V75 Vineyard (comment 4) describes the area as having 
a unique terroir distinct from other grape growing areas in the 
northwest. Another representative of V75 Vineyard (comment 2) describes 
the winds, growing degree days, and geology as unique features that 
support distinguishing this area within the larger Columbia Valley AVA. 
This commenter also notes the appropriateness of the AVA name for this 
region. The supporting comments from V75 Vineyard representatives 
(comments 2, 4, and 5) also express the view that establishing the 
proposed AVA will provide economic benefits to the region, helping 
support and market the region's vineyards and wines. A separate comment 
(comment 3) describes the proposed AVA as ``one of the most interesting 
grape-growing/viticultural areas identified in years.''
    The remaining comment (comment 1) expressed neither support nor 
opposition to the proposed AVA and just asked whether the proposed 
``Columbia Hills'' name might be confused with the established Columbia 
Valley AVA. TTB notes that, as described more fully in the Notice No. 
235, the petition provided evidence that the area of the proposed AVA 
is known by the name ``Columbia Hills'', which is reflected in the 
Columbia Hills Natural Area Preserve and Columbia Hills Historical 
State Park. TTB did not receive any comments in response to Notice No. 
235 questioning the sufficiency of the name evidence. As noted below in 
the section ``Impact on Current Wine Labels,'' because the Columbia 
Hills AVA is situated within and maintains features consistent with the 
Columbia Valley AVA, vintners will be able to use ``Columbia Hills,'' 
``Columbia Valley,'' or both as appellations of origin for wines made 
primarily from grapes grown within the Columbia Hills AVA if the wines 
meet the eligibility requirements for these appellations. As with the 
establishment of any AVA, the extent to which wine consumers recognize 
the name of the AVA and associate the name with certain features of the 
wine depends upon the efforts of vineyard owners and winemakers in the 
region, which are factors beyond the establishment of the AVA.

TTB Determination

    After careful review of the petition and the comments received in 
response to Notice No. 235, TTB finds that the evidence provided by the 
petitioner supports establishing the Columbia Hills AVA. Accordingly, 
under the authority of the FAA Act, section 1111(d) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, and parts 4 and 9 of the TTB regulations, TTB 
establishes the ``Columbia Hills'' AVA in Klickitat County, Washington, 
effective 30 days from the publication date of this document.
    TTB has also determined that the Columbia Hills AVA will remain 
part of the established Columbia Valley AVA. As discussed in Notice No. 
235, the Columbia Hills AVA shares some broad characteristics with the 
established AVA. For example, the proposed AVA and the Columbia Valley 
AVA both have growing seasons longer than 150 days, limited annual 
rainfall amounts, and GDD accumulations generally over 2,000. Unlike 
the surrounding Columbia Valley AVA, however, the proposed Columbia 
Hills AVA is not a large, treeless basin. Instead, the proposed AVA is 
a region of hillslopes and flood-carved terraces within a deeply 
incised river valley.

Boundary Description

    See the narrative description of the boundary of the Columbia Hills 
AVA in the regulatory text published at the end of this final rule.

Maps

    The petitioners provided the required maps, and they are listed 
below in the regulatory text. The Columbia Hills AVA boundary may also 
be viewed on the AVA Map Explorer on the TTB website, at <a href="https://www.ttb.gov/regulated-commodities/beverage-alcohol/wine/ava-map-explorer">https://www.ttb.gov/regulated-commodities/beverage-alcohol/wine/ava-map-explorer</a>.

Impact on Current Wine Labels

    Part 4 of the TTB regulations prohibits any label reference on a 
wine that indicates or implies an origin other than the wine's true 
place of origin. For a wine to be labeled with an AVA name or with a 
brand name that includes an AVA name, at least 85 percent of the wine 
must be derived from grapes grown within the area represented by that 
name, and the wine must meet the other conditions listed in 27 CFR 
4.25(e)(3). If the wine is not eligible for labeling with an AVA name 
and that name appears in the brand name, then the label is not in 
compliance and the bottler must change the brand name and obtain 
approval of a new label. Similarly, if the AVA name appears in another 
reference on the label in a misleading manner, the bottler would have 
to obtain approval of a new label. Different rules apply if a wine has 
a brand name containing an AVA name that was used as a brand name on a 
label approved before July 7, 1986. See 27 CFR 4.39(i)(2) for details.
    With the establishment of the Columbia Hills AVA, its name,

[[Page 53194]]

``Columbia Hills,'' will be recognized as a name of viticultural 
significance under Sec.  4.39(i)(3) of the TTB regulations (27 CFR 
4.39(i)(3)). The text of the regulation clarifies this point. 
Consequently, wine bottlers using the name ``Columbia Hills'' in a 
brand name, including a trademark, or in another label reference as to 
the origin of the wine, will have to ensure that the product is 
eligible to use the AVA name as an appellation of origin.
    The establishment of the Columbia Hills AVA will not affect the 
existing Columbia Valley AVA, and any bottlers using ``Columbia 
Valley'' as an appellation of origin or in a brand name for wines made 
from grapes grown within the Columbia Valley AVA will not be affected 
by the establishment of this new AVA. The establishment of the Columbia 
Hills AVA will allow vintners to use ``Columbia Hills,'' ``Columbia 
Valley,'' or both as appellations of origin for wines made primarily 
from grapes grown within the Columbia Hills AVA if the wines meet the 
eligibility requirements for these appellations.

Regulatory Flexibility Act

    TTB certifies that this regulation will not have a significant 
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The 
regulation imposes no new reporting, recordkeeping, or other 
administrative requirement. Any benefit derived from the use of an AVA 
name would be the result of a proprietor's efforts and consumer 
acceptance of wines from that area. Therefore, no regulatory 
flexibility analysis is required.

Executive Order 12866

    It has been determined that this final rule is not a significant 
regulatory action as defined by Executive Order 12866, as amended. 
Therefore, no regulatory assessment is required.

Drafting Information

    Karen A. Thornton of the Regulations and Rulings Division drafted 
this final rule.

List of Subjects in 27 CFR Part 9

    Wine.

The Regulatory Amendment

    For the reasons discussed in the preamble, TTB amends title 27, 
chapter I, part 9, Code of Federal Regulations, as follows:

PART 9--AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS

0
1. The authority citation for part 9 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  27 U.S.C. 205.

Subpart C--Approved American Viticultural Areas

0
2. Add Sec.  9.301 to read as follows:


Sec.  9.301   Columbia Hills.

    (a) Name. The name of the viticultural area described in this 
section is ``Columbia Hills''. For purposes of part 4 of this chapter, 
``Columbia Hills'' is a term of viticultural significance.
    (b) Approved maps. The two United States Geological Survey (USGS) 
1:100,000 scale topographic maps used to determine the boundary of the 
viticultural area are as follows:
    (1) Hood River OR-WA, 1982; and
    (2) Goldendale, WA-OR, 1980.
    (c) Boundary. The Columbia Hills viticultural area is located in 
Klickitat County, Washington. The boundary of the Columbia Hills 
viticultural area is as described as follows:
    (1) The beginning point is on the Hood River map at the 
intersection of the northern shoreline of the Columbia River and an 
unnamed creek due east of the marked ``Cold Spring.'' From the 
beginning point, proceed northerly along the unnamed creek to its 
intersection with the 300-meter elevation contour; then
    (2) Proceed east along the 300-meter elevation contour to the 
eastern boundary of the Hood River map; then
    (3) Proceed north along the map boundary for approximately 400 
feet; then
    (4) Proceed east onto the 320-meter elevation contour on the 
Goldendale map and continue east along the 320-meter elevation contour 
to its intersection with the boundary between Range 18 East and Range 
19 East, south of Sand Spring Canyon; then
    (5) Proceed southeast in a straight line for 9,000 feet (1.7 miles) 
to the intersection of the boundary between sections 31 and 32, T3N/
R19E and the northern shoreline of the Columbia River; then
    (6) Proceed west along the northern shoreline of the Columbia 
River, returning to the beginning point.

    Signed: August 11, 2026.
Mary G. Ryan,
Administrator.

    Approved: August 12, 2026.
Kevin M. Salinger,
Acting Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Tax Policy).
[FR Doc. 2026-16701 Filed 8-14-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4810-31-P


</pre></body>
</html>