<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 177 (Tuesday, September 15, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 177 (Tuesday, September 15, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 58536-58544]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-18859]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

[Docket ID OCC-2026-0793]
RIN 1557-ZA18

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

[Docket No. OP-1881]

FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

RIN 3064-ZA58

NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION

[Docket No. NCUA-2026-1684]
RIN 3133-ZA54


Proposed Third-Party Risk Management Guidance

AGENCY: The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Treasury, 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the National Credit 
Union Administration (NCUA).

ACTION: Proposed interagency guidance and request for comment.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The OCC, Board, FDIC, and NCUA (collectively, the agencies) 
invite comments on this proposed third-party risk management guidance. 
The proposed guidance would reflect the agencies' supervisory 
experience and lessons learned through examining banking organizations' 
third-party risk management practices. In particular, the proposed 
guidance would discuss the potential benefits that may accrue when a 
banking organization aligns its third-party risk management practices 
in relation to the reasonably assessed risk levels specific to each of 
its third-party relationships. This approach may assist banking 
organizations in the prioritization of third-party risk management 
based on material financial risks, compliance with laws and 
regulations, and resource allocation. The proposed guidance also would 
help banking organizations consider potential strategies for tailoring 
their third-party risk management practices according to the banking 
organization's size, complexity, and risk profile, as well as the 
nature of its third-party relationships. The agencies plan to rescind 
and replace existing guidance on third-party risk management to promote 
consistency and innovation in the banking industry.

DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 16, 2026.

ADDRESSES: 
    OCC: Commenters are encouraged to submit comments through the 
Federal eRulemaking Portal. Please use the title ``Third-Party Risk 
Management Guidance'' to facilitate the organization and distribution 
of the comments. You may submit comments by any of the following 
methods:
    <bullet> Federal eRulemaking Portal--<a href="http://Regulations.gov">Regulations.gov</a>: Go to <a href="https://regulations.gov/">https://regulations.gov/</a>. Enter Docket ID ``OCC-2026-0793'' in the search box 
and click ``Search.'' Public comments can be submitted via the 
``Comment'' box below the displayed document information or by clicking 
on the document title and then clicking the ``Comment'' box on the top-
left side of the screen. For help with submitting effective comments, 
please click on ``Commenter's Checklist.'' For assistance with the 
<a href="http://Regulations.gov">Regulations.gov</a> site, please call 1-866-498-2945 (toll free) Monday-
Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. ET, or email <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#54263133213835203d3b3a273c3138243031273f143327357a333b22"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="90e2f5f7e5fcf1e4f9fffee3f8f5fce0f4f5e3fbd0f7e3f1bef7ffe6">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.
    <bullet> Mail: Chief Counsel's Office, Attention: Comment 
Processing, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 400 7th Street 
SW, Suite 1E-216, Washington, DC 20219.
    <bullet> Hand Delivery/Courier: 400 7th Street SW, Suite 1E-216, 
Washington, DC 20219.
    Instructions: You must include ``OCC'' as the agency name and 
Docket ID ``OCC-2026-0793'' in your comment. In general, the OCC will 
enter all comments received into the docket and publish the comments on 
the <a href="http://Regulations.gov">Regulations.gov</a> website without change, including any business or 
personal information provided such as name and address information, 
email addresses, or phone numbers. Comments received, including 
attachments and other supporting materials, are part of the public 
record and subject to public disclosure. Do not include any information 
in your comment or supporting materials that you consider confidential 
or inappropriate for public disclosure.
    You may review comments and other related materials that pertain to 
this action by the following method:
    <bullet> Viewing Comments Electronically--<a href="http://Regulations.gov">Regulations.gov</a>: Go to 
<a href="https://regulations.gov/">https://regulations.gov/</a>. Enter Docket ID ``OCC-2026-0793'' in the 
search box and click ``Search.'' Click on the ``Dockets'' tab and then 
the document's title. After clicking the document's title, click the 
``Browse All Comments'' tab. Comments can be viewed and filtered by 
clicking on the ``Sort By'' drop-down on the right side of the screen 
or the ``Refine Comments Results'' options on the left side of the 
screen. Supporting materials can be viewed by clicking on the ``Browse 
Documents'' tab. Click on the ``Sort By'' drop-down on the right side 
of the screen or the ``Refine Results'' options on the left side of the 
screen checking the ``Supporting & Related Material'' checkbox. For 
assistance with the <a href="http://Regulations.gov">Regulations.gov</a> site, please call 1-866-498-2945 
(toll free) Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. ET, or email 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#92e0f7f5e7fef3e6fbfdfce1faf7fee2f6f7e1f9d2f5e1f3bcf5fde4"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="780a1d1f0d14190c1117160b101d14081c1d0b13381f0b19561f170e">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.
    The docket may be viewed after the close of the comment period in 
the same manner as during the comment period.
    Board: You may submit comments, identified by Docket No. OP-1881, 
by any of the following methods:
    <bullet> Agency Website: <a href="https://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/proposals/">https://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/proposals/</a>. Follow the instructions for submitting comments, including 
attachments. Preferred Method.
    <bullet> Mail: Benjamin W. McDonough, Secretary, Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, 
Washington, DC 20551.
    <bullet> Hand Delivery/Courier: Same as mailing address.
    <bullet> Other Means: <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#a4d4d1c6c8cdc7c7cbc9c9c1cad0d7e4c2d6c68ac3cbd2"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="bbcbced9d7d2d8d8d4d6d6ded5cfc8fbddc9d995dcd4cd">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>. You must include 
docket number in the subject line of the message.
    Comments received are subject to public disclosure. In general, 
comments received will be made available on the Board's website at 
<a href="https://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/proposals/">https://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/proposals/</a> without change and will 
not be modified to remove personal or business information including 
confidential, contact, or other identifying information. Comments 
should not include any information such as confidential information 
that would be not appropriate for public disclosure. Public comments 
may also be viewed electronically or in person in Room M-4365A, 2001 C 
St. NW, Washington, DC 20551, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. during Federal 
business weekdays.

[[Page 58537]]

    FDIC: You may submit comments to the FDIC, identified by ZRIN 3064-
ZA58, by any of the following methods:
    <bullet> Agency Website: <a href="https://www.fdic.gov/federal-register-publications">https://www.fdic.gov/federal-register-publications</a>. Follow instructions for submitting comments on the FDIC's 
website.
    <bullet> Email: <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#25464a4848404b51566563616c660b424a53"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="d6b5b9bbbbb3b8a2a59690929f95f8b1b9a0">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>. Include ZRIN 3064-ZA58 in the 
subject line of the message.
    <bullet> Mail: Jennifer M. Jones, Deputy Executive Secretary, 
Attention: Comments--ZRIN 3064-ZA58, Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, 550 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20429.
    <bullet> Hand Delivery/Courier: Comments may be hand-delivered to 
the guard station at the rear of the 550 17th Street NW building 
(located on F Street NW) on business days between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m.
    <bullet> Public Inspection: Comments received, including any 
personal information provided, may be posted without change to <a href="https://www.fdic.gov/federal-register-publications">https://www.fdic.gov/federal-register-publications</a>. Commenters should submit 
only information they wish to make available publicly. The FDIC may 
review, redact, or refrain from posting all or any portion of any 
comment that it may deem to be inappropriate for publication, such as 
irrelevant or obscene material. The FDIC may post only a single 
representative example of identical or substantially identical 
comments, and in such cases will generally identify the number of 
identical or substantially identical comments represented by the posted 
example. All comments that have been redacted, as well as those that 
have not been posted, that contain comments on the merits of this 
notice will be retained in the public comment file and will be 
considered as required under all applicable laws. All comments may be 
accessible under the Freedom of Information Act.
    NCUA: Comments may be submitted in one of the following ways. 
(Please send comments by one method only):
    <bullet> Federal eRulemaking Portal: <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a>. 
The docket number for this proposed guidance is NCUA-2026-1684. Follow 
the ``Submit a comment'' instructions. If you are reading this document 
on <a href="http://federalregister.gov">federalregister.gov</a>, you may use the green ``SUBMIT A PUBLIC 
COMMENT'' button beneath this rulemaking's title to submit a comment to 
the regulations.gov docket. A plain language summary of the proposed 
guidance is also available on the docket website.
    <bullet> Mail: Address to Melane Conyers-Ausbrooks, Secretary of 
the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, 
Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428.
    <bullet> Hand Delivery/Courier: Same as mailing address.
    Mailed and hand-delivered comments must be received by the close of 
the comment period.
    Public Inspection: Please follow the search instructions on <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a> to view the public comments. Do not include any 
personally identifiable information (such as name, address, or other 
contact information) or confidential business information that you do 
not want publicly disclosed. All comments are public records; they are 
publicly displayed exactly as received and will not be deleted, 
modified, or redacted. Comments may be submitted anonymously. If you 
are unable to access public comments on the internet, you may contact 
the NCUA for alternative access by calling (703) 518-6540 or emailing 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#39767e7a7458505579575a4c58175e564f"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="d69991959bb7bfba96b8b5a3b7f8b1b9a0">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 
    OCC: Graham Bannon, Counsel, Chief Counsel's Office, 202-649-5490; 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 400 7th Street SW, 
Washington, DC 20219. If you are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a 
speech disability, please dial 7-1-1 to access telecommunications relay 
services.
    Board: Juan Climent, Deputy Associate Director, (202) 460-2180, 
Jeff Ernst, Manager, (202) 369-9439, Brock Kannan, Manager, (202) 924-
0665, Allison Boller, Sr. Financial Institution Policy Analyst II, 
(202) 253-4686, Division of Supervision and Regulation; or Claudia Von 
Pervieux, Special Counsel, (202) 469-1020, Benjamin Nuyens, Senior 
Counsel, (202) 909-7574, Legal Division; Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, 
Washington, DC 20551.
    FDIC: Division of Risk Management Supervision: Sumaya Muraywid, 
Section Chief, (202) 898-3904; Division of Depositor and Consumer 
Protection: Monika Jansen, Senior Policy Analyst, (202) 898-6781; Legal 
Division: Kate Marks, Senior Counsel, (202) 898-3896.
    NCUA: Office of Examination and Insurance: Simon Hermann, Senior 
Credit Specialist, <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#c8bba0adbaa5a9a6a688a6abbda9e6afa7be"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="36455e53445b575858765855435718515940">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or (703) 518-6360; Office of 
General Counsel: Ian Marenna, Associate General Counsel for Regulations 
and Legislation, <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#254c484457404b4b44654b4650440b424a53"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="e1888c8093848f8f80a18f829480cf868e97">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or (703) 518-6540; National Credit 
Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. Introduction

    Banking organizations \1\ routinely rely on third parties for a 
range of products, services, and other activities. These third-party 
relationships vary widely in form and in the degree of operational 
functions outsourced to the third party. The agencies have long 
acknowledged both the benefits associated with third-party 
relationships and the potential that these relationships may present 
or, in some cases, heighten certain risks. Third-party relationships 
have varying levels of importance to a banking organization's 
operations and delivery of products and services, and accordingly may 
warrant different levels of risk management.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ For a description of the banking organizations supervised by 
each agency, refer to the definition of ``appropriate Federal 
banking agency'' in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)). For purposes of this proposed guidance, 
banking organizations also include insured credit unions as defined 
in the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(7)). Use of this 
guidance may also be relevant to any other entity supervised by the 
agencies.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In order to assist banking organizations in identifying and 
managing risks associated with third-party relationships and in 
complying with applicable laws and regulations, the Board, FDIC, and 
OCC published the Interagency Guidance on Third-Party Relationships: 
Risk Management in 2023 (the 2023 Guidance).\2\ The agencies continue 
to believe that the principles-based, tailored approach outlined in the 
2023 Guidance remains a relevant tool to assist banking organizations 
in considering their third-party risk management practices. However, 
based on feedback from stakeholders and supervisory experience, the 
agencies believe the 2023 Guidance frequently has been interpreted in 
an overly broad manner and with an insufficient focus on tailoring its 
risk management principles.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \2\ 88 FR 37920 (June 9, 2023). The 2023 Guidance is 
supplemented by the OCC for its supervised entities by guidance 
specific to foreign-based third-party service providers (OCC 
Bulletin 2002-16, ``Bank Use of Foreign-Based Third-Party Service 
Providers: Risk Management Guidance'' (May 15, 2002)). The 2023 
Guidance is also supplemented by the Board, FDIC, and OCC with a 
statement on bank-fintech arrangements (OCC Bulletin 2024-20, Board 
SR Letter 24-5, and FDIC FIL-45-2024, ``Joint Statement on Banks' 
Arrangements with Third Parties to Deliver Bank Deposit Products'' 
(July 25, 2024)), and the Board, FDIC, and OCC have published a 
resource for community banks (OCC Bulletin 2024-11, Board SR Letter 
24-2/CA Letter 24-1, and FDIC FIL-19-2024, ``Third-Party Risk 
Management: A Guide for Community Banks'' (May 3, 2024)) 
(collectively, the Supplemental TPRM Resources).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The 2023 Guidance is susceptible to such an interpretation for 
several reasons, notwithstanding language disclaiming any prescriptive 
intent or

[[Page 58538]]

checklist approach. First, because it attempts to address a broad range 
of third-party relationships, banking organizations have reported that 
they have often struggled to understand (i) which of the extensive list 
of considerations apply to specific contexts (e.g., relationships with 
core providers vs. financial technology companies (fintechs) vs. 
facilities maintenance vendors); and (ii) how to tailor their approach 
in practice, as many of the examples the 2023 Guidance provides may 
prove effective for one banking organization but impractical or 
infeasible for another. This is in part due to overly detailed examples 
and idealized factual scenarios that may not align with the real-world 
experiences of banking organizations when dealing with third parties. 
While examples can be valuable for illustrating how risk management 
principles translate into effective strategies, they can undermine a 
principles-based approach by suggesting a one-size-fits-all checklist.
    Second, while the 2023 Guidance sets forth an expectation that 
banking organizations apply more comprehensive and rigorous oversight 
of third-party relationships supporting ``critical activities,'' it is 
focused more on the activity conducted by the third party rather than 
either the third-party relationship or the magnitude or likelihood of 
harm related to the risks implicated by the relationship. Banking 
organizations have reported applying heightened risk management 
practices to a wide range of third-party relationships without regard 
to the magnitude and likelihood of the risks actually posed by each 
relationship.
    Third, the 2023 Guidance has been interpreted as establishing 
prescriptive requirements for banking organizations. Supervisory 
experience has shown use of words like ``should'' when discussing 
examples has failed to convey the importance of tailoring risk 
management to the actual risks a banking organization faces, 
commensurate with the banking organization's size, complexity, and risk 
profile and the nature of its third-party relationships. The 2023 
Guidance unintentionally incentivized overly-process-driven approaches 
that fail to prioritize higher-risk relationships and focus risk 
management efforts and resources where they are needed.\3\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \3\ As third-party risk management may at times involve multiple 
business functions within a banking organization (e.g., 
cybersecurity, resilience, and data privacy, as well as various 
subject-matter experts), a failure to allocate and prioritize 
resources in a risk-based manner may also have unintended 
consequences on the effectiveness of risk management functions 
outside of the third-party risk management context.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Finally, the 2023 Guidance has been read to discourage arrangements 
with newer and innovative third parties because it indicates they may 
present elevated risks. However, these firms can provide innovative 
services and solutions that enhance access to financial products and 
services and create economic opportunities for banking organizations 
and their customers.\4\ To the extent the 2023 Guidance has implied an 
impossible goal of risk elimination, rather than risk management, 
banking organizations have reported maintaining relationships with 
third parties that may not best meet their needs, including where the 
third party cannot provide the banking organization with best-in-class 
products and services, has breached contract terms, or offers above-
market pricing.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \4\ See generally E.O. 14405 ``Integrating Financial Technology 
Innovation into Regulatory Frameworks,'' 91 FR 30475 (May 19, 2026) 
(E.O. 14405).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The proposed guidance would address these concerns by emphasizing 
risk identification and assessment as the foundation of a risk-based 
approach. This would enable banking organizations and examiners to 
focus on material financial risks and violations of laws and 
regulations rather than ineffective and counter-productive check-the-
box exercises. Banking organizations that appropriately prioritize 
their risk management efforts--tailoring the level and detail of 
oversight to correspond with assessed risk levels--are better 
positioned to effectively manage third-party risk.
    The proposed guidance would also encourage responsible innovation, 
consistent with Executive Order 14405, by emphasizing a risk-based and 
tailored approach to third-party risk management and removing broad-
based and overly prescriptive language from the 2023 Guidance that may 
unduly impede fintechs from entering partnerships with banking 
organizations.
    The agencies invite comments on all aspects of the proposed 
guidance. Any finalized guidance would replace the 2023 Guidance and 
the Supplemental TPRM Resources.\5\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \5\ The agencies invite comments on whether any additional 
guidance documents, interpretive letters, or other resources 
relevant to third-party risk management should also be rescinded.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

II. Regulatory Analysis

Paperwork Reduction Act

    The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501-3521) (PRA) 
states that no agency may conduct or sponsor, nor is the respondent 
required to respond to, an information collection unless it displays a 
currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number.
    The guidance does not revise any existing, or create any new, 
information collections pursuant to the PRA. Rather, any reporting, 
recordkeeping, or disclosure activities mentioned in the guidance are 
usual and customary and should occur in the normal course of business 
as defined in the PRA.\6\ Consequently, no submissions will be made to 
the OMB for review.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \6\ 5 CFR 1320.3(b)(2).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Executive Order 12866 (as Amended)

    Executive Order 12866, titled ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' 
as amended, requires the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs 
(OIRA), OMB, to determine whether a proposed guidance is a 
``significant regulatory action'' prior to the disclosure of the 
proposed guidance to the public. If OIRA finds the proposed guidance to 
be a ``significant regulatory action,'' Executive Order 12866 requires 
the relevant agency to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed 
guidance and for OIRA to conduct a review of the proposed guidance 
prior to publication in the Federal Register. Executive Order 12866 
defines a ``significant regulatory action'' to mean a regulatory action 
that is likely to (1) have an annual effect on the economy of $100 
million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a 
sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the 
environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal 
governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or 
otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; 
(3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user 
fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients 
thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal 
mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in 
Executive Order 12866.
    OIRA has determined that this proposed guidance is not a 
significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 
12866 and, therefore, is not subject to review under Executive Order 
12866.

Executive Order 14192

    Executive Order 14192, titled ``Unleashing Prosperity Through 
Deregulation,'' requires that an agency, unless prohibited by law, 
identify at least 10 existing regulations to be

[[Page 58539]]

repealed when the agency publicly proposes for notice and comment or 
otherwise promulgates a new regulation with total costs greater than 
zero. Executive Order 14192 further requires that new incremental costs 
associated with new regulations shall, to the extent permitted by law, 
be offset by the elimination of existing costs associated with at least 
10 prior regulations. This proposed guidance, if finalized as proposed, 
is expected to be a deregulatory action under Executive Order 14192 
because it would provide supervisory clarity that may result in greater 
efficiencies and streamlining in banking organizations' third-party 
risk management functions.

III. Text of Proposed Guidance

    The text of the proposed guidance on third-party risk management is 
as follows:

Third-Party Risk Management Guidance

A. Overview
B. Risk Management Components
    1. Risk Identification and Assessment
    i. Third-Party Relationship Identification
    ii. Risk Identification
    iii. Risk Assessment
    2. Risk Oversight
    i. Due Diligence and Third Party Selection
    ii. Contract Negotiation
    iii. Ongoing Monitoring
    iv. Termination
    v. Cross-Cutting Oversight Topics
    3. Residual Risk Acceptance
    4. Governance

A. Overview

    Banking organizations \7\ routinely rely on third parties for a 
range of products, services, and other activities. These third-party 
relationships come in a variety of forms and involve services related 
to many aspects of a banking organization's business. The degree of 
discretion granted to a third party can vary significantly in different 
types of relationships.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \7\ For a description of the banking organizations supervised by 
each agency, refer to the definition of ``appropriate Federal 
banking agency'' in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)). For purposes of this proposed guidance, 
banking organizations also include insured credit unions as defined 
in the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(7)). Use of this 
guidance may also be relevant to any other entity supervised by the 
agencies.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Banking organizations of all sizes rely on third-party 
relationships to operate effectively and meet evolving customer 
expectations. Community and mid-size banking organizations, which play 
an outsized role in lending and are vital to the strength of the U.S. 
economy, may be particularly reliant on such relationships to remain 
competitive in a rapidly evolving marketplace. Third-party 
relationships benefit banking organizations by allowing access to or 
facilitating technological advances; strategic business innovations; 
new or improved products, services, and delivery channels and 
engagement with new or expanded markets; and operational efficiencies.
    At the same time, use of third parties may introduce new risks or 
amplify existing risks to banking organizations and their customers.
    A banking organization has ultimate responsibility to establish and 
maintain sound risk management practices and comply with applicable 
laws and regulations. A banking organization's use of third parties 
does not diminish its responsibility to meet these requirements to the 
same extent as if the activities were performed by the banking 
organization internally, including where the third-party relationship 
involves affiliates, service providers that are themselves highly-
regulated entities, or subcontractors, or where elements of the banking 
organization's risk management practices are performed by a third 
party. The proposed guidance provides sound risk management principles 
to assist banking organizations in identifying, assessing, and managing 
risks associated with third-party relationships.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \8\ Banking organizations' third-party relationships may raise 
additional consumer compliance considerations that may be relevant 
to, but that are not directly addressed in, this proposed guidance.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Third-Party Relationships
    For purposes of this guidance, a third-party relationship is a 
business arrangement between a banking organization and an entity or 
individual for the provision of one or more products, services, and 
other activities that support the banking organization.\9\ The use of 
subcontractors alone does not typically create an independent third-
party relationship or create a presumption of direct banking 
organization oversight of any subcontractors.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \9\ The agencies have observed that third-party relationships 
typically involve written agreements. Where a banking organization 
lacks a written agreement with a third party, or where no clear 
consideration underlies an activity, that activity is unlikely to 
constitute a third-party relationship. What would be the advantages 
and disadvantages of a banking organization applying the proposed 
guidance only to third parties that are subject to a written 
agreement with the banking organization to which it provides 
services? Would this approach, or an alternative, help clarify the 
scope of the proposed guidance and, if so, how?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    These third-party relationships vary widely in form and in the 
degree of operational functions outsourced to the third party. Some 
third parties provide services central to the banking organization's 
operations. These include core processing service providers that 
provide comprehensive back-end applications and infrastructure that 
support the operation and essential functions of one or more of a 
banking organization's business lines; firms that provide other 
services that support a banking organization's essential operating 
functions, such as cloud processing, cloud storage, and compliance 
tools; and fintechs that partner with banking organizations to provide 
access to financial services. Other third-party relationships involve 
varying levels of interaction with a banking organization's operations. 
These include third parties that provide assistance with business-line- 
or product-specific activities (e.g., software or data providers); 
perform administrative or clerical tasks (e.g., operators of call 
centers or recordkeeping services); offer professional support services 
(e.g., auditors, lawyers, or consultants); and maintain office support 
services (e.g., physical security providers).
Principles-Based Approach
    Each banking organization is responsible for operating in a safe 
and sound manner and adopting risk management practices that are best 
suited to managing the specific risks that it faces, commensurate with 
the banking organization's size, complexity, and risk profile and with 
the nature of its third-party relationships (including the risk and 
complexity of those relationships and type of activities performed by 
the third party). Not all third-party relationships present the same 
level of risk, and a similar relationship at different banking 
organizations may present different risks. Accordingly, there is no 
one-size-fits-all approach to effective risk management. Banking 
organizations are experienced in determining, and are ultimately 
responsible for establishing, third-party risk management practices 
that are appropriate for the banking organization, consistent with safe 
and sound banking practices and in compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. The agencies will give due consideration to a banking 
organization's reasonable decisions in matters of third-party risk 
management supervision.
Non-Enforceable Guidance
    This proposed guidance does not set forth enforceable standards or

[[Page 58540]]

prescriptive requirements; \10\ accordingly, non-compliance with this 
guidance will not result in supervisory action against a banking 
organization. Any supervisory criticism will be specific to a banking 
organization's operations, financial condition, or other relevant 
factors, consistent with the applicable legal standards. Deviation from 
or inconsistency with this proposed guidance or any examples herein, 
including where an examiner believes that deviation or inconsistency is 
contrary to best practices, will not alone be a basis for supervisory 
action. However, the agencies may take action for violations of laws or 
regulations, unsafe or unsound practices, or other material risks that 
result from insufficient management of third-party risk (consistent 
with applicable rules and guidance on agency enforcement and 
supervisory standards).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \10\ See 12 CFR Part 4, Subpart F, Appendix A (OCC); 12 CFR Part 
262, Appendix A (Board); 12 CFR Part 302, Appendix A (FDIC); 12 CFR 
Part 791, Subpart D (NCUA).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

B. Risk Management Components

    The proposed guidance presents four components that banking 
organizations may consider when managing third-party risk: (1) 
identifying and assessing applicable risks; (2) overseeing risks 
proportionate to their significance; (3) making informed decisions 
about residual risks and risk acceptance; and (4) establishing 
appropriate governance practices.
1. Risk Identification and Assessment
i. Third-Party Relationship Identification
    Sound third-party risk management commonly begins with identifying 
and categorizing third-party relationships. Maintaining an inventory of 
third-party relationships may be useful for managing third-party risks. 
For example, a large or complex banking organization with multiple 
higher-risk third-party relationships may benefit from a periodically 
updated and detailed inventory that maps individual subcomponents of a 
third-party relationship to various banking organization business 
units, reporting lines, or other accountability mechanisms, while a 
community bank may benefit from a simpler or streamlined format that 
allows its management to quickly assess relevant third-party 
relationships at a higher level. Banking organizations may decide not 
to maintain extensive inventories of relationships posing limited risk, 
such as those related to administrative or clerical tasks, professional 
support services (including auditing and legal advice), or office 
support services (including physical security).
ii. Risk Identification
    After identifying its prospective or existing third-party 
relationships, a banking organization generally identifies relevant 
risks. Risks presented by third-party relationships are varied and may 
change over time or may not be immediately apparent. For example, a 
core service provider, given the extent of its services, is likely to 
touch on many components of a banking organization's operational risk, 
in addition to other risks. A facilities maintenance third party, by 
contrast, may implicate only a relatively limited range of risks, such 
as physical access risk. A banking organization typically has the 
experience and relevant information for identifying the most salient 
risks, especially where relevant staff members, such as subject-matter 
experts, are included in the risk identification process. It is 
unlikely that a banking organization could identify all possible risks 
and it is not expected to do so; however, identifying the most relevant 
risks is generally part of effective third-party risk management.
iii. Risk Assessment
    Not all third-party relationships present the same level of risk, 
and there is not only one way to properly conduct risk assessments. 
Risk assessments commonly take into account both the magnitude of harm 
the third-party relationship could cause the banking organization or 
its customers and the likelihood that the harm will occur. A banking 
organization's higher-risk third-party relationships could include 
those (1) that, if disrupted, subjected to attack, conducted in breach 
of the terms of any applicable contract, or otherwise performed in a 
manner in which non-business-as-usual circumstances prevail, could 
cause the banking organization to incur an actual non-trivial violation 
of law or regulation, pose material harm to the financial condition of 
the banking organization, or result in a significant disruption to the 
banking organization's operations or customers; and (2) where there is 
a material likelihood that such legal or regulatory violation, 
financial harm, or operational disruption may occur under current or 
reasonably foreseeable conditions.
    While certain third-party relationships, such as core processing 
service provider relationships, are likely to be assessed by most 
banking organizations as higher risk,\11\ other relationships may be 
assessed as higher risk by one banking organization but not by 
another.\12\ Some banking organizations may conduct a risk assessment 
for an overall third-party relationship, considering all activities 
conducted by the third party, while other banking organizations may 
conduct the assessment on a per-activity basis.\13\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \11\ As risk assessments are typically tailored to an individual 
banking organization's circumstances, a banking organization may 
determine, for example, that a core bank processor that provides 
services for only a limited portion of the banking organization's 
business represents a relatively lower-risk relationship compared to 
a core bank processor that provides services for the majority of a 
banking organization's business, depending on the relevant factors.
    \12\ Relatedly, many third parties may connect to a banking 
organization's information technology systems and networks, 
including through application programming interfaces, vendor 
portals, or other means. These access points may be exploited; 
however, a third party with access to a banking organization's 
systems or networks that do not hold critical data and are 
appropriately segmented is not necessarily higher risk, and banking 
organizations may, for example, be able to manage any related risks 
primarily through safe and sound cybersecurity risk management 
rather than through extensive third-party risk management.
    \13\ The agencies have also observed, for example, that banking 
organizations will commonly take the overall third-party 
relationship into account in circumstances where the bank is exposed 
to concentration risk from a third party due to relying on the third 
party for extensive services.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Certain third-party relationships may be less likely to be assessed 
as higher risk. For example, many banking organizations contract with 
affiliated entities that operate within an enterprise-wide risk 
management framework to perform various services. Use of such affiliate 
arrangements can help a banking organization and its related entities 
more efficiently organize operations and maximize efficiencies. Such 
services, when conducted within an organization-wide enterprise risk 
management framework with which the banking organization is familiar, 
may be lower-risk and can enable the banking organization to rely on 
alternative oversight mechanics such as staff overlaps.
    Additionally, certain third parties may themselves be entities that 
are heavily regulated and supervised by one or more state or federal 
regulators. As such, in certain circumstances, a banking organization 
may consider a third party's regulatory status and regulatory 
obligations as part of its risk assessment. However, supervisory and 
regulatory schemes may differ materially between entity types and with 
regard to applicable legal requirements, regulatory or supervisory 
authority, the nature of the activity, or

[[Page 58541]]

other factors, and thus the mere presence of a regulatory scheme may 
not necessarily serve to mitigate risks relevant to a banking 
organization.\14\ Further, even regulated entities could nevertheless 
operate in a less than satisfactory condition, which could increase the 
risk they pose to the banking organization.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \14\ No supervisory or regulatory agency is responsible for a 
banking organization's third-party risk management. Banking 
organizations should not rely on the existence of any agency 
supervision or regulation as a substitute for managing third-party 
risk or as a proxy for whether such third parties provide services 
in a safe and sound manner.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    A banking organization may obtain further information that warrants 
adjusting its initial risk assessment after it performs due diligence 
and engages in contractual negotiations. Additionally, changing 
circumstances, an expanded or a renegotiated contract, or a banking 
organization's experience overseeing a third-party relationship, among 
other factors, may be indicators that a third-party relationship's risk 
has changed since the banking organization's initial assessment and may 
benefit from being reassessed. The decision of whether and how 
frequently to re-assess a banking organization's risks related to a 
third-party relationship may take into account additional factors such 
as changes in reliance on the third party, any new or existing 
identified concerns with the third party, or a change in the level(s) 
and type(s) of services provided by the third party.
    Banking organizations typically have extensive experience assessing 
risks as part of their business. As such, examiners will give due 
consideration to a banking organization's reasonable judgment regarding 
the banking organization's risk assessments.\15\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \15\ To what extent would it be helpful for the guidance to 
include a list of characteristics that generally indicate that a 
third-party relationship is high risk, and if so, what 
characteristics should be included?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Risk Oversight
    Effective risk management involves overseeing third-party 
relationships in a manner proportionate to the risks they present and 
consistent with the banking organization's risk appetite and 
tolerances. Banking organizations typically prioritize oversight of 
higher-risk third-party relationships and establish more rigorous 
oversight practices for such relationships. A banking organization may 
tailor its oversight in a manner commensurate with the banking 
organization's size, complexity, and risk profile, as well as with the 
nature of the third-party relationship. For example, the level of 
oversight appropriate for a banking organization with multiple business 
lines, operating subsidiaries, and a diversified customer base may not 
be appropriate for a banking organization with a less complex business 
model. Risk management practices that do not prioritize and tailor 
according to risk could increase the magnitude and likelihood of harm 
arising from higher-risk relationships due to inappropriate levels of 
attention and oversight.
    The following discusses oversight at a high level. The examples 
provided are illustrative only, may not be relevant to all banking 
organizations or relationships, and are not comprehensive.
i. Due Diligence and Third Party Selection
    Due diligence is the process by which a banking organization 
assesses a third party's ability to perform the activity as expected, 
adhere to the banking organization's policies, comply with applicable 
laws and regulations, and conduct the activity in a safe and sound 
manner. As with all third-party oversight, the amount of due diligence 
that is warranted depends on the risk presented by the third-party 
relationship and the banking organization's individual business needs. 
In the case of lower-risk third-party relationships, a banking 
organization may be more comfortable with relying either on less-
detailed due diligence information or on public or alternative sources, 
as compared to its higher-risk relationships. Depending on the 
circumstances, this relatively less-detailed level of due diligence may 
be sufficient for the banking organization to determine that the third 
party is likely able to perform the services being contracted for 
(including, for example, that the third party has sufficient staffing 
and capabilities) and that further due diligence may not provide 
appreciable benefits to the banking organization.
    Depending on the circumstances, due diligence may involve assessing 
a third party's financial condition; business experience and key 
personnel; staffing capabilities and qualifications, including training 
relevant to the banking organization's business; legal and regulatory 
compliance; insurance coverage; and information security and 
cybersecurity capabilities and track record, as applicable. Due 
diligence may also evaluate the effectiveness of the third party's 
relevant risk management practices and capabilities, including 
policies, procedures, and internal controls and whether there is an 
alignment with the banking organization's own applicable policies, 
procedures, controls, strategies, and expectations.
    In some cases, a banking organization may not be able to obtain 
certain due diligence information from a third party. For example, a 
third party may not have a long operational history, may not permit on-
site visits, or may not share (or is not permitted to share) 
information that the banking organization requests, but a banking 
organization may determine that other factors offset or compensate for 
those limitations. A banking organization may also have limited 
negotiating power with some third parties, which may amplify these 
difficulties. Even when unable to meet all of its due diligence 
objectives, a banking organization may still collect sufficient 
information, including from supplemental sources, to be able to 
determine that engaging with the third party is within the banking 
organization's risk appetite and tolerances. Outside information 
sources may be relied upon in certain contexts, including, for example, 
information or feedback obtained through banking organizations or trade 
groups, review of available public sources, or, in the case of a third 
party with a limited operational history, the overall qualifications 
and experience of management and employees of the third party in 
performing the services that would be provided. Similarly, external 
industry experts familiar with the third party, the relevant industry, 
or with market standard terms and practices may also supplement or help 
a banking organization conduct due diligence. However, where the third 
party is unable or unwilling to provide information or other 
cooperation reasonably necessary for the banking organization to 
conduct due diligence, ongoing monitoring and risk assessments, the 
alternative sources described above may not be sufficient to allow the 
banking organization to engage with the third party within its risk 
appetite and tolerances.
ii. Contract Negotiation
    Effective third-party risk management generally involves 
negotiating contract provisions designed to facilitate effective risk 
management, oversight, and performance, in line both with the banking 
organization's risk identification and assessment and with the results 
of its due diligence, and that specify the expectations and obligations 
of both the banking organization and the third party.
    There are no generally applicable expected contract terms for 
third-party relationships--even for higher-risk relationships--and 
banking

[[Page 58542]]

organizations typically tailor their contract negotiations and 
provisions to their individual needs and circumstances, commensurate 
with the banking organization's size, complexity, and risk profile and 
the nature of its third-party relationships. As such, the presence or 
absence of a specific contractual term that an examiner may believe to 
be contrary to best practices would not alone be a sufficient basis for 
an examiner to communicate an adverse finding related to a banking 
organization's third-party risk management practices.
    Depending on the circumstances, the terms of the contract may 
allocate responsibility between the parties. A service level agreement 
can define performance measures, which can assist banking organizations 
in evaluating a third party's performance and compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. Other items that may be relevant for a 
banking organization to consider during contract negotiations include, 
depending on the circumstances, confidentiality and information 
security, and, as discussed below, use of subcontractors, operational 
resilience plans, and termination provisions.
    Third parties often offer standard contracts. Banking organizations 
can assess whether these standard terms adequately address their 
specific circumstances and risks. For example, banking organizations 
may determine that they need to request modifications, additional 
contract provisions, or activity-specific addenda to strengthen 
oversight for areas that pose higher risk to the banking organization. 
For lower-risk relationships, a banking organization may determine that 
standard form contracts are sufficient. Alternatively, a banking 
organization may focus negotiations on a narrow subset of contractual 
provisions most relevant to the risks presented by the third-party 
relationship and that could provide the banking organization sufficient 
comfort that the services provided through the third-party relationship 
will be conducted in a manner that meets its needs and that is within 
its risk appetite and tolerances.
    When a banking organization has limited negotiating power relative 
to a third party, it may be unable to negotiate all of its desired 
contractual provisions. The banking organization may still reasonably 
proceed with the relationship if, for example, the banking organization 
has a reasonable understanding of the risks relevant to the third-party 
relationship and any residual risks are in line with the banking 
organization's risk appetite and tolerances, especially if there are 
limited alternative options. In certain circumstances, banking 
organizations may also be able to gain an advantage by negotiating 
contracts as a group with other organizations, as discussed below.
    Maintaining an inventory of and periodically reviewing third party 
contracts may assist a banking organization in confirming that existing 
provisions continue to address pertinent risks. If new risks are 
identified, a banking organization may consider whether it is 
appropriate to renegotiate or terminate a third-party relationship.
iii. Ongoing Monitoring
    Ongoing monitoring is the process by which banking organizations 
assess and monitor third-party performance and changes in the risks 
posed by third-party relationships. It also includes any associated 
reporting to the board and senior management, as appropriate, in line 
with the banking organization's size, complexity, and risk profile, as 
well as the nature of its third-party relationships. Ongoing monitoring 
may enable a banking organization to: (1) confirm the quality of a 
third party's controls and its ability to meet contractual obligations 
and perform as expected; (2) identify significant issues or concerns, 
such as material or repeat audit findings, deterioration in financial 
condition, security breaches, data loss, service interruptions, 
compliance issues, customer complaints, changes to insurance coverage, 
or other indicators of increased risk; and (3) respond to such 
significant issues or concerns when identified.
    Examples of monitoring activities may include: (1) reviews of 
updates to information utilized in due diligence and reports or data 
regarding the third party's performance and the effectiveness of its 
controls, including audits conducted by the third party (or an 
independent entity hired by the third party); \16\ (2) periodic visits 
and meetings with third-party representatives to discuss performance 
and operational issues; (3) periodic testing of the banking 
organization's controls that manage risks from its third-party 
relationships and, in certain circumstances, periodic testing of the 
third party's services to the banking organization to assess the third 
party's performance and effectiveness; (4) reviews of public filings or 
reports of examination arising from the agencies' standard supervisory 
processes for certain large third parties' provision of services, if 
applicable; \17\ and (5) reviews of customer complaints.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \16\ Banking organizations and bank service providers have 
incident notification obligations under the agencies' Computer 
Security Incident Notification Rule, which may also inform ongoing 
monitoring. See 12 CFR part 53 (OCC); 12 CFR 225, subpart N (Board); 
12 CFR 304, subpart C (FDIC). See also, 12 CFR 748.1 for the NCUA's 
Cyber Incident Report Rule.
    \17\ See 12 U.S.C. 1464(d)(7)(D) and 1867(c)(1). These reports 
of examination are not tailored to any individual banking 
organization's circumstances or risk management needs and may be 
based on targeted rather than comprehensive examinations. These 
reports are the property of the agencies and are not intended as a 
proxy or substitute for any banking organization's responsibilities 
to undertake effective risk management and reliance on such reports 
without performing independent due diligence would be inconsistent 
with sound risk management principles.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Banking organizations may choose to conduct ongoing monitoring on a 
periodic or continuous basis based on the banking organization's 
assessment of the risk, complexity, and nature of the third-party 
relationship. For example, in the case of higher-risk third-party 
relationships, a banking organization may determine that effective risk 
oversight requires it to conduct more comprehensive or frequent 
monitoring. Higher-risk relationships may also involve additional 
staffing with the necessary expertise, authority, and accountability to 
perform a wide range of ongoing monitoring activities. For lower-risk 
relationships, a banking organization may determine that relatively 
less extensive, less detailed, or less frequent reporting, and 
commensurately reduced staffing needs, are necessary to support its 
risk oversight.
    Banking organizations can tailor monitoring to their needs, 
abilities, risk determinations, and negotiating power, all of which can 
vary between larger or more complex banking organizations and community 
banks or among third-party relationships. For example, whether on-site 
visits to a third party or audits of a third party's control practices 
are practical may depend on the circumstances.
    Because both the types and levels of risks a banking organization 
faces may change over the lifetime of a third-party relationship, a 
banking organization may later find it useful to adapt or alter its 
ongoing monitoring practices accordingly, including by expanding or 
contracting the scope, level of detail, or frequency of information 
collected or produced for monitoring.
iv. Termination
    A banking organization may terminate a third-party relationship for 
various reasons, such as expiration or breach of contract; the third 
party's failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations; concerns 
regarding a third

[[Page 58543]]

party's performance of the activity more generally; or a desire to seek 
an alternate third party, bring the activity in-house, or discontinue 
the activity. When this occurs, management typically seeks to terminate 
relationships in an efficient manner, and management's ability to do so 
may depend on previously negotiated contract provisions. For example, a 
banking organization may determine that a lower-risk third-party 
relationship presents relatively few concerns, and it may be easy and 
cost-effective to seamlessly switch to an alternative third party, if 
necessary. As the complexity and materiality of a third-party 
relationship increases, a banking organization may benefit from 
advanced planning and ultimately determine that potential beneficial 
factors associated with a termination--e.g., in-house or alternative 
third-party options with the potential for long-term cost reductions or 
improvements to the banking organization's products, services, and 
operations; better access to or control over data; or use of innovative 
technology--either do or do not outweigh the potential negative 
factors--e.g., costs and fees associated with termination,\18\ extended 
transition timespans, operational complications, the likelihood of 
service or data access disruptions, data retention and destruction 
issues, and handling of joint intellectual property.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \18\ Termination cost considerations typically include whether 
alternative providers may be willing to buy out the remaining term 
of the contract or otherwise defer the banking organization's 
termination-related costs.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In any case, a banking organization's assessment as to the 
preferability of terminating a contract with one third party and 
transitioning services to another typically draws on numerous factors 
relevant to the organization's business and strategy and the agencies 
will give due consideration to the organization's reasonable 
determinations that an alternative third party can provide the services 
as contracted for and within the banking organization's risk appetite 
and tolerances.
v. Cross-Cutting Oversight Topics
    The preceding discussion provides a high-level overview of 
tailoring third-party relationship oversight to a banking 
organization's size, complexity, and risk profile and the nature and 
assessed risk levels of its third-party relationships. However, banking 
organizations may benefit from considering third-party risk management 
on a holistic, rather than a siloed, stage-by-stage basis, since 
effectively managing any given risk may be a multi-factored process. 
Understanding how risks and mitigating factors may cut across or 
implicate different oversight stages and where certain risk management 
strategies may be complementary or redundant may help banking 
organizations more effectively tailor and prioritize their risk 
management practices.
    The following highlights certain examples that may help illuminate 
such an approach.
Subcontractors
    While a banking organization typically does not have a direct 
business arrangement with a third party's subcontractors, their use may 
nonetheless heighten risks related to the third-party relationship as 
it may lessen the banking organization's control of activities. Since 
subcontractors may be considered in connection with the primary third-
party relationship, the extent to which a banking organization 
exercises risk oversight related thereto may depend on the nature and 
risks of the third-party relationship. A banking organization may be 
able to exercise effective risk oversight related to a third party's 
use of subcontractors by, for example, negotiating and monitoring 
compliance with contractual terms governing the use and oversight of 
subcontractors (including specifying whether service level agreements 
apply to subcontractor activity) or by assessing, confirming, and 
monitoring the adequacy of its third party's own third-party risk 
management programs. The banking organization remains responsible for 
complying with applicable laws and regulations, and operating in a safe 
and sound manner, regardless of a third party's use of subcontractors.
Use of Co-Ventures, Consortia, Standard-Setting Organizations, 
Consultants, and Other Third Parties That Provide Risk Management 
Services
    The agencies recognize that banking organizations can leverage new 
arrangements to manage third-party risk, including:
    <bullet> Participating in a co-venture or consortium that 
collaborates on an aspect of third-party risk management, such as 
performing due diligence or developing standard contracts, or use of 
services from standard-setting and certification organizations that 
provide risk management and compliance standards for third parties 
engaging with banking organizations and issue certifications that 
assess that a third party meets the standards.
    <bullet> Considering the results from services provided by 
consultants, auditors, or law firms for risk management and compliance 
purposes.
    Such arrangements could, among other things, create new 
efficiencies, provide banking organizations additional leverage in 
conducting due diligence on, negotiating with, or monitoring third 
parties, and facilitate access to new technologies and strategic 
expertise.\19\ The use of such arrangements could inform a banking 
organization's risk assessment and enhance a banking organization's 
ability to oversee its third-party relationships. For example, review 
of credible summaries of technical data or proprietary information, as 
well as certifications or results of assessments provided by such 
arrangements, may be adequate for a banking organization's due 
diligence needs, depending on facts and circumstances. However, it is 
important for effective risk management to be based on the banking 
organization's own specific circumstances and performance criteria for 
the activity.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \19\ Any collaborative activities among banking organizations 
must comply with antitrust laws. Refer to the Federal Trade 
Commission and U.S. Department of Justice's ``Antitrust Guidelines 
for Collaborations Among Competitors'' (Apr. 2000), available at 
<a href="https://www.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/public_events/joint-venture-hearings-antitrust-guidelines-collaboration-among-competitors/ftcdojguidelines-2.pdf">https://www.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/public_events/joint-venture-hearings-antitrust-guidelines-collaboration-among-competitors/ftcdojguidelines-2.pdf</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In addition, effective third-party risk management may also involve 
relying on third-party technologies or processes to supplement or 
assist the banking organization's own risk oversight activities. This 
may allow community banks, in particular, to benefit from advanced 
technology and industry expertise otherwise unavailable. However, 
reliance on third parties for risk management purposes can itself 
involve risks, which a banking organization can address based on its 
individual circumstances.
Insurance, Indemnification, and Other Limitations on Liability
    Depending on risk exposure, negotiating for credible 
indemnification provisions, limitations on banking organization 
liability, insurance, or guarantees from the third party's parent or 
other entity may serve to effectively mitigate risks arising from the 
third-party relationship, which may lower the risk associated with the 
relationship. Such a conclusion may be based upon, for example, due 
diligence regarding the ability of the relevant party to meet any 
obligations, negotiating terms of the coverage as relevant to the 
specific risks of the third-party relationship, maintaining the 
coverage and

[[Page 58544]]

confirming its ongoing sufficiency, and considering whether the banking 
organization has the capacity to cover any costs associated with 
pursuing, filing, disputing, or litigating a claim.
Operational Resilience Planning
    Effective risk oversight, particularly for higher-risk 
relationships, may include due diligence, contract negotiations, and 
ongoing monitoring sufficient to demonstrate resilience and assess 
assurances, including, for example, contractual obligations related to 
review of a third party's operational resilience plan, the existence of 
alternative back-up providers that can provide an easy transition of 
services, the practice of maintaining critical data backed up at a 
physically and logically separated site, or other relevant 
considerations. In certain circumstances, even if a higher-risk third 
party suffers a disruption event, cyberattack, or otherwise is unable 
to provide business-as-usual services, if a banking organization has 
sufficient demonstration of its own or of the third party's ability to 
quickly and effectively resume operations and preserve relevant data, 
the harms from any such event may be significantly mitigated. This may 
in turn inform the risk associated with the third-party relationship.
3. Residual Risk Acceptance
    Residual risk is the risk remaining after the banking organization 
applies mitigating measures. The agencies do not expect banking 
organizations to eliminate third-party risk. Some residual risk is 
unavoidable, as discussed above. In some cases, the materiality of the 
risk does not justify the oversight required to significantly mitigate 
it. In other cases, a banking organization may lack the means to 
significantly mitigate a risk, such as when it lacks bargaining power 
to conduct sufficient due diligence, negotiate customized contract 
terms, or engage in in-depth ongoing monitoring, or where the banking 
organization has limited alternative options. Managing third-party risk 
includes determining when and to what extent elements of risk oversight 
may not be practicable and whether residual risks may be acceptable 
according to a banking organization's risk appetite and tolerances, 
while still conducting activities in a safe and sound manner, and when 
and to what extent a banking organization can make this determination 
based on limited information. Even in cases where the banking 
organization cannot significantly mitigate a risk, the third-party 
relationship may still be beneficial and necessary for the banking 
organization to operate effectively and competitively in a rapidly 
evolving marketplace. Risk acceptance is ultimately a fact- and 
circumstance-specific consideration, commensurate with a banking 
organization's size, complexity, and risk profile and with the nature 
of its third-party relationships.
4. Governance
    In order to support its overall third-party risk management 
practices, banking organizations may consider adopting governance 
practices that: (1) establish clear roles and responsibilities, (2) 
establish an appropriate risk appetite and appropriate risk tolerances 
related to risks from third-party relationships, (3) help ensure that 
the banking organization is able to identify and assess its third-party 
relationship risks and prioritize risk management in relation to the 
assessed risk levels of such relationships and the banking 
organization's risk appetite and tolerances, (4) establish appropriate 
reporting to senior management and the board, (5) document key elements 
of risk management for third-party relationships, and (6) establish a 
process for conducting periodic independent reviews to assess the 
effectiveness of the banking organization's third-party risk management 
practices.
    However, there is no one right way for a banking organization to 
structure such practices, and a banking organization's size, 
complexity, and risk profile and the nature of its third-party 
relationships will ultimately drive any relevant governance decisions. 
The agencies will give due consideration to a banking organization's 
reasonable governance considerations when reviewing those practices.

Jonathan V. Gould,
Comptroller of the Currency.
    By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System.

Benjamin W. McDonough,
Secretary of the Board.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

    Dated at Washington, DC, on September 10, 2026.
Jennifer M. Jones,
Deputy Executive Secretary.


    By the National Credit Union Administration Board on September 
10, 2026.
Melane Conyers-Ausbrooks,
Secretary of the Board.
[FR Doc. 2026-18859 Filed 9-14-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4810-33-P; 6210-01-P; 6714-01-P; 7535-01-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>