<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 178 (Wednesday, September 16, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 178 (Wednesday, September 16, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 58593-58610]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-18978]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

Employment and Training Administration

20 CFR Part 603

[Docket ETA-2025-0004]
RIN 1205-AC11


Federal-State Unemployment Compensation (UC) Program; Data 
Availability

AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Department of Labor (DOL or the Department) is issuing 
this final rule to require the disclosure of confidential unemployment 
compensation (UC) information to Federal officials for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits. This rule will ensure that Federal 
officials, including the Department's Office of Inspector General (DOL-
OIG), are able to obtain the information needed from State UC agencies 
to ensure proper oversight of the UC programs and to hold State UC 
agencies accountable for identifying and addressing fraud in UC 
programs.

DATES: 
    Effective date: This final rule is effective November 16, 2026.
    Compliance date: States that need to amend their laws to conform 
and comply with the requirements of this rule must do so as quickly as 
possible, but no later than September 16, 2027.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michelle E. Beebe, Administrator, 
Office of Unemployment Insurance, Employment and Training 
Administration (ETA), Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, 
Room S-4524, Washington, DC 20210, Email: <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#0163646463642f6c686269646d6d642f6441656e6d2f666e77"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="5331363631367d3e3a303b363f3f367d3613373c3f7d343c25">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>, 
Telephone: (202) 693-3029 (voice) (this is not a toll-free number). For 
persons with a hearing or speech disability who need assistance to use 
the telephone system, please dial 711 to access telecommunications 
relay services.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Preamble Table of Contents

I. Acronyms and Abbreviations
II. Background
    A. Regulatory History
    B. Supplemental NPRM Planned for National UC Claims Database
    C. Comments on Public Involvement and the Rulemaking Process
III. Discussion
    A. Overview of the Final Rule
    B. Need for Rulemaking
    C. Statutory and Legal Background
    D. Comments Regarding Requiring Rather Than Permitting 
Disclosures of Confidential UC Data to Federal Officials for 
Purposes of UC Program Oversight and Audits
IV. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices
    A. Executive Orders 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review), 
13563 (Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review), and 14192 
(Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation), and Subtitle E of the 
Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996
    B. Regulatory Flexibility Act
    C. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
    D. Executive Order 13132 (Federalism)
    E. Unfunded Mandates Reform Act
    F. Executive Order 13175 (Indian Tribal Governments)

I. Acronyms and Abbreviations

2006 Final Rule Federal-State Unemployment Compensation Program (UC); 
Confidentiality and Disclosure of State UC Information; Final Rule, 71 
FR 56830 (Sept. 27, 2006)
2023 RFI Federal-State Unemployment Compensation (UC) Program; 
Confidentiality and Disclosure of State UC Information; Request for 
Information, 88 FR 47829 (July 25, 2023)
APA Administrative Procedure Act
August 2025 NPRM Federal-State Unemployment Compensation (UC) Program; 
Data Availability; Proposed Rule, 90 FR 42143 (Aug. 29, 2025)
BLS Bureau of Labor Statistics
CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
COVID-19 coronavirus disease 2019
Department or DOL Department of Labor
DOL-OIG DOL Office of Inspector General
E.O. Executive Order
ETA Employment and Training Administration
FR Federal Register
GAO Government Accountability Office
NPRM Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
OEWS Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics
OIRA Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs
OMB Office of Management and Budget

[[Page 58594]]

PRA Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
Pub. L. Public Law
RFA Regulatory Flexibility Act
RFI Request for Information
RIN Regulation Identifier Number
sec. section
Secretary Secretary of Labor
SNPRM Supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
SOC Standard Occupational Classification
SORN System of Records Notice
SSA Social Security Act
UC Unemployment Compensation
UIPL Unemployment Insurance Program Letter
UMRA Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995
U.S.C. United States Code

II. Background

A. Regulatory History

    The authority for this amendment is derived from the ``methods of 
administration'' provision in sec. 303(a)(1) of the Social Security Act 
(SSA), which requires States to provide in their laws, as a condition 
to be certified to receive administrative grants, such ``methods of 
administration'' as the Secretary determines to be ``reasonably 
calculated to insure full payment of unemployment compensation when 
due.'' Title 20 CFR part 603 establishes requirements for maintaining 
the confidentiality of UC information along with standards for required 
and permissible disclosures of such information. The existing 
regulation at Sec.  603.5(i), last updated in 2006 by the Department's 
Federal-State Unemployment Compensation Program (UC); Confidentiality 
and Disclosure of State UC Information; Final Rule (hereinafter, the 
2006 Final Rule), provides that State UC agency disclosures of 
confidential UC information to Federal officials for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits are permissible and excepted from the 
confidentiality requirement set forth in part 603. 71 FR 56830, 56837 
(Sept. 27, 2006). Preceding the 2006 Final Rule, the Department 
proposed an exception to part 603 specifically for disclosures required 
by Federal law.\1\ The 2006 Final Rule changed the provision proposed 
at Sec.  603.5(i) to limit it to disclosures for UC program oversight 
and audits because disclosures to Federal officials as ``required by 
Federal Law'' was already covered by other provisions in part 603, 
including the provision allowing disclosure to public officials at 
Sec.  603.5(e). The Department explained in the 2006 Final Rule that it 
included the provision regarding permissible disclosures for purposes 
of Federal oversight and audits because ``the Department believe[d] it 
[was] necessary to explicitly address the inapplicability of the 
confidentiality requirement to any disclosure to the Federal Government 
for purposes of UC program oversight and audits.'' See 2006 Final Rule. 
The Department now revises part 603 to make these disclosures required.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ See 69 FR 50022 (Aug. 12, 2004) (proposing Sec.  603.5(i)).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Amending the regulation to require these disclosures allows the 
Department to continue the important work of holding State UC agencies 
accountable for identifying and preventing fraud in the UC program. As 
State UC operations have evolved since this regulation was first 
promulgated, States have faced increased fraud incidents, including 
sophisticated multistate fraud schemes by organized criminals. The 
CARES Act created a number of new UC programs in response to the 
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic and during this period the 
program was exposed to increased fraudulent activity, costing the UC 
system billions of dollars according to estimates by DOL-OIG. DOL-OIG 
identified $45.6 billion in potentially fraudulent benefits paid in six 
high-risk areas under UC programs,\2\ and an estimated $191 billion in 
benefits under UC programs during the pandemic period may have been 
paid improperly, with a significant portion attributable to fraud.\3\ 
Since 2020, DOL-OIG has repeatedly expressed its concern to the 
Department that its access to confidential UC information for purposes 
of UC program oversight and audits could end at any time and 
recommended a change to the regulations to make clear that such 
disclosures are required.\4\ The Secretary of Labor (Secretary) must 
have the tools necessary to ensure that UC programs are administered 
consistently with the requirements of Federal law. Oversight and audits 
of UC programs by the Department, DOL-OIG, and other Federal officials 
help detect fraud vulnerabilities and identify possible solutions, 
which is necessary to hold State UC agencies accountable for 
administering UC programs consistent with Federal law requirements.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \2\ DOL-OIG Alert Memorandum: Potentially Fraudulent 
Unemployment Insurance Payments in High-Risk Areas Increased to 
$45.6 Billion Report Number: 19-22-005-03-315, Sept. 21, 2022, 
<a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2022/19-22-005-03-315.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2022/19-22-005-03-315.pdf</a>.
    \3\ ``The Greatest Theft of American Tax Dollars: Unchecked 
Unemployment Fraud,'' Hearing, Statement for the Record of Larry D. 
Turner, Inspector General, U.S. Department of Labor; House Committee 
on Ways and Means, Feb. 8, 2023, <a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/testimony/02082023.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/testimony/02082023.pdf</a>.
    \4\ See, e.g., DOL-OIG Alert Memorandum: ``COVID-19: More Can Be 
Done to Mitigate Risk to Unemployment Compensation Under the CARES 
Act'', Report No. 19-20-008-03-315, Aug. 7, 2020, <a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2021/19-21-005-03-315.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2021/19-21-005-03-315.pdf</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    On August 29, 2025, the Department published a notice of proposed 
rulemaking (NPRM), Federal-State Unemployment Compensation (UC) 
Program; Data Availability; Proposed Rule (90 FR 42143) (hereinafter 
referred to as the August 2025 NPRM), that proposed requiring the 
disclosure of confidential UC information to Federal officials for 
purposes of UC program oversight and audits. In total, 40 commenters 
responded, representing State UC agencies, advocacy organizations, 
individual and anonymous commenters, unions, a professional 
association, and a think tank. See section III of this preamble for 
discussion of the comments.
    The August 2025 NPRM referenced a Request for Information (RFI) 
entitled Federal-State Unemployment Compensation (UC) Program; 
Confidentiality and Disclosure of State UC Information that was 
published on July 25, 2023 (88 FR 47829) (hereinafter referred to as 
the 2023 RFI), considering comprehensive updates to part 603. In the 
August 2025 NPRM, the Department acknowledged that the most critical 
step needed at this time was to address fraud in UC programs by 
ensuring the Department, including DOL-OIG, has access to data to 
conduct oversight and combat fraud.
    The August 2025 NPRM also sought comment on a potential amendment 
to part 603 that would require States to submit all UC claims data on a 
regular basis to the ETA as part of a national UC claims database for 
purposes of UC program oversight and audits, including comments about 
appropriate safeguards and security measures to protect individual data 
under such a requirement.

B. Supplemental NPRM Planned for National UC Claims Database

    The Department has determined it is appropriate to solicit further 
input on the topic of a national UC claims database. Therefore, if such 
a database is to be pursued, the Department will issue a Supplemental 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (SNPRM) on this topic. The Department 
will consider the comments received regarding a national UC claims 
database in response to the August 2025 NPRM when drafting the future 
SNPRM on this topic. This final rule does not address the creation of a 
national UC claims database.

[[Page 58595]]

C. Comments on Public Involvement and the Rulemaking Process

    The August 2025 NPRM included a 30-day comment period for the 
public to provide input on the NPRM, which ended on September 29, 2025. 
Several commenters requested that the comment period be extended at 
least 30 days to allow for more time to analyze the potential impacts 
of the NPRM and prepare comments accordingly. An advocacy organization 
argued that Executive Order (E.O.) 13563, Improving Regulation and 
Regulatory Review, generally requires a 60-day comment period.
    Some commenters also offered additional suggestions for the 
Department to solicit further input from the public to inform the 
rulemaking process. An advocacy organization identified only two 
responses to the 2023 RFI on the subject of reducing fraudulent 
payment, and therefore argued for the August 2025 NPRM to have ``more 
robust, current, and timely feedback from experts and advocates.'' The 
commenter also critiqued the Department for setting aside the other 
concerns identified in public comments on the 2023 RFI. An advocacy 
organization asserted that the NPRM was styled as a final rule, and 
another asserted that the Department failed to and should consult with 
impacted parties, such as States, local governments, or Tribal 
governments. Another advocacy organization suggested the Department 
engage with impacted immigrant populations, provide transparency about 
data collection and use, and commit to privacy and accountability.
    The Department declined to extend the comment period and posted a 
letter to the docket to inform stakeholders of this decision.\5\ As 
explained in the August 2025 NPRM and in the letter denying the comment 
period extension requests posted to the docket, the Department 
previously engaged with the regulated community on the topics covered 
in the August 2025 NPRM, including through the 2023 RFI. The Department 
also announced at that time that it was considering comprehensive 
updates to the UC confidentiality regulations and that information 
received in response to the 2023 RFI would inform and be considered by 
the Department as part of that potential rulemaking. The August 2025 
NPRM was more limited in scope than the 2023 RFI and included a 30-day 
comment period for stakeholders to further provide comment on the 
changes the Department proposed to make to the part 603 regulation. 
Therefore, the Department declined to extend the August 2025 NPRM's 30-
day comment period because it determined that it had provided the 
public with sufficient notice, time to review, and opportunity to 
comment on the NPRM. To the commenter's concern that this rulemaking 
sets aside the other concerns identified in public comments on the 2023 
RFI, the Department considered the feedback it received and determined 
that codifying the required disclosure of confidential UC information 
to Federal officials, including DOL-OIG, for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits was the most critical step needed at this time.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \5\ See Deny Comment Period Extension for Unemployment 
Compensation NPRM, published to the rulemaking docket at <a href="https://www.regulations.gov/search?filter=ETA-2025-0004">https://www.regulations.gov/search?filter=ETA-2025-0004</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

III. Discussion

A. Overview of Final Rule

    The Department is removing Sec.  603.5(i), which permits State UC 
agencies to disclose confidential UC information to Federal officials 
for purposes of UC program oversight and audits, and adding a provision 
requiring the disclosure of confidential UC information for purposes of 
UC program oversight and audits to Sec.  603.6, which contains required 
disclosures. Moving the disclosure to Federal officials for purposes of 
UC program oversight and audits to Sec.  603.6 makes these disclosures 
a requirement under 20 CFR part 603. This final rule effectuates this 
change by redesignating paragraph (c) of Sec.  603.6 as paragraph (d) 
and inserting a new paragraph (c) in Sec.  603.6. Additionally, in 
response to comments, the Department is adding a new provision to Sec.  
603.10 that will require certain requestors to provide additional 
information to States as part of their request for confidential UC 
information within the scope of UC program oversight and audits. This 
final rule also makes conforming amendments to the introductory matter 
of Sec.  603.5 and to paragraph (b) of Sec.  603.8. Finally, this final 
rule updates the authority citation to more accurately reflect the 
Department's statutory authority for part 603.
    Based on comments received in response to the August 2025 NPRM, the 
Department made two changes to the NPRM that are reflected below. 
First, if a national UC claims database is pursued, the Department will 
publish an SNPRM to provide a greater opportunity for input on the 
national UC claims database referenced in the August 2025 NPRM. This 
change allows for further input and policy refinement in consideration 
of comments received about the proposal.
    Second, the Department added a new provision to Sec.  603.10 that 
requires Federal officials (other than the Department, DOL-OIG, and the 
Government Accountability Office (GAO)) who are requesting information 
pursuant to Sec.  603.6(c) to state how the information will be used 
and how that use is for purposes of UC program oversight and audits, 
and to cite to the Federal official's authority for UC program 
oversight and audits. This was in response to concerns from commenters 
over transparency, data use, and potential overreach. The Department, 
DOL-OIG, and GAO already have separate authority to receive 
confidential UC information and routinely request information for 
purposes of UC program oversights and audits based on their duties and 
statutory authority, thus a justification is not needed. The Department 
believes that requiring a written justification for requests from other 
Federal officials will address the concerns raised by commenters 
because it increases transparency as to the scope and use of the data 
requested by Federal officials. Paragraph 603.10(e) of this final rule 
requires that other Federal officials requesting confidential UC 
information must limit their use of the information to the uses stated 
in the written request submitted to the State UC agency, except as 
otherwise required by Federal law.
    This change balances accountability and transparency with the 
important oversight facilitated by the newly required disclosures. The 
Department believes that the prescribed scope of these disclosures, for 
purposes of UC program oversight and audits, provides an important 
limitation on the disclosures and that such a limitation aligns these 
new required disclosures with those States currently make to DOL-OIG, 
as one example. Federal officials that seek to obtain confidential UC 
information for purposes other than UC program oversight and audits are 
outside the scope of this final rule. Public officials, as defined in 
Sec.  603.2(d), may request such information pursuant to Sec.  
603.5(e), which governs disclosure of confidential UC information to 
public officials. Other officials may request confidential UC 
information for non-oversight and audit purposes based on other 
applicable authority that is available for that purpose. This rule is 
only concerned with Federal officials requesting confidential UC 
information for purposes of UC program oversight and audits.

[[Page 58596]]

    The authority for this amendment is derived from the ``methods of 
administration'' requirement of sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, which requires 
States to provide in their laws, as a condition to be certified to 
receive administrative grants, such ``methods of administration'' as 
the Secretary determines to be ``reasonably calculated to insure full 
payment of unemployment compensation when due.'' The Department 
interprets the phrase ``when due'' in this requirement to mean accurate 
payments are made to eligible individuals in addition to ensuring that 
the payments are timely. It also requires that a State not make 
payments when payments are not due, i.e., to individuals not eligible 
due to fraud or otherwise. This final rule is also consistent with the 
objectives of E.O. 14243, Stopping Waste, Fraud, and Abuse by 
Eliminating Information Silos, because it requires, rather than 
permits, the disclosure of confidential UC information to Federal 
officials for purposes of UC program oversight and audits.
    The Department notes that part of its responsibilities under the 
SSA include certifying State UC programs. This responsibility can only 
be upheld if the Department has the ability to access certain 
information. The Department is not seeking to supplement its 
information collections at this time; however, the capacity for the 
Department to do so in the future is guaranteed by this rulemaking.

B. Need for Rulemaking

    Pursuant to sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, the Department has long required 
States to disclose all information that is necessary for the proper 
administration of UC programs (Sec.  603.6(a)). The Department has also 
specifically recognized the critical role that oversight and audits 
play in the proper administration of UC programs, particularly in 
ensuring payments are not made when they are not due. The Department 
has recognized this critical role by explicitly making disclosures to 
Federal officials for purposes of UC program oversight and audits 
permissible and excepting such disclosures from the confidentiality 
requirement under Sec.  603.5(i).
    For years, the Department has interpreted sec. 303(a)(1) as 
requiring the disclosure of confidential UC information to certain 
Federal agencies because disclosure of such data is authorized under 
statutes administered by those agencies, including, for example, the 
Internal Revenue Service for purposes of UC tax administration. See 
Federal-State Unemployment Compensation Program (UC); Confidentiality 
and Disclosure of State UC Information; Proposed Rule, 69 FR 50022, 
50027 (Aug. 12, 2004); 2006 Final Rule, 71 FR 56830, 56838 (Sept. 27, 
2006). Similarly, the Department has long recognized that disclosures 
of confidential UC information to DOL-OIG for fraud investigations are 
necessary for the proper administration of the program. See 20 CFR 
603.6(a); see, e.g., Unemployment Insurance Program Letter (UIPL) Nos. 
04-17 (Dec. 16, 2016) (``OIG investigations of fraud are necessary for 
the proper administration of the program'') and 04-17, Change 1 (Aug. 
3, 2021). DOL-OIG's collections pursuant to Sec.  603.6(a) occur under 
a System of Records Notice (SORN) that covers such collections. See 
DOL-OIG 12, ``Office of Inspector General Warehouse and Learning System 
(OWLS),'' 85 FR 60833 (Sept. 28, 2020). Additionally, during the 
pandemic, the Department required the regular disclosure of 
confidential UC information related to the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and 
Economic Security (CARES) Act UC programs to DOL-OIG for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits under its authority under the CARES Act 
and as a condition of UC administrative grants. See, e.g., UIPL No. 04-
17, Change 1 (Aug. 3, 2021) (``Within the context of administering PUA, 
FPUC, PEUC, MEUC, and full federal funding of the first week of regular 
UC for States with no waiting week that is reimbursed in accordance 
with Section 2105 of the CARES Act, as amended, states must disclose 
all information to DOL-OIG for the purposes of investigating UC fraud 
and for audits of UC programs.'') and UIPL No. 22-21 (Aug. 11, 2021) 
(``as a condition of receiving a grant under this UIPL, states must 
agree to information disclosure with [DOL-OIG]'').
    State cooperation with these requests has become critical to the 
effective administration of UC programs. State UC operations have 
evolved since the confidentiality regulation was first promulgated in 
2006, as States have faced a large increase in online claims filing, as 
well as a stark increase in fraud incidents, particularly those 
involving sophisticated multistate fraud schemes by organized 
criminals. The CARES Act created a number of new UC programs in 
response to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic and during 
this period the program was exposed to increased fraudulent activity, 
costing the UC system billions of dollars according to estimates by 
DOL-OIG. DOL-OIG identified $45.6 billion in potentially fraudulent UC 
benefits paid in six high-risk areas,\6\ and estimated $191 billion in 
UC benefits during the pandemic period could have been paid improperly, 
with a significant portion attributable to fraud.\7\ The Secretary must 
have the tools necessary to ensure that the UC programs are 
administered consistently with the requirements of Federal law. 
Oversight and audits are necessary to hold State UC agencies 
accountable for reducing improper payments and for ensuring that State 
UC agencies provide proper and efficient administration of the UC 
program. As discussed above, DOL-OIG has reinforced this point through 
repeated recommendations to the Department to amend this rule to make 
disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight and audits required 
rather than permissive. Accordingly, in recognition of the growing 
urgency of the need for fraud identification and prevention within the 
program, DOL interprets sec. 303(a)(1) as requiring the disclosure of 
confidential UC information to Federal officials, including DOL-OIG, 
for purposes of UC program oversight and audits.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \6\ DOL-OIG Alert Memorandum: Potentially Fraudulent 
Unemployment Insurance Payments in High-Risk Areas Increased to 
$45.6 Billion Report Number: 19-22-005-03-315, Sept. 21, 2022, 
<a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2022/19-22-005-03-315.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2022/19-22-005-03-315.pdf</a>.
    \7\ ``The Greatest Theft of American Tax Dollars: Unchecked 
Unemployment Fraud,'' Hearing, Statement for the Record of Larry D. 
Turner, Inspector General, U.S. Department of Labor; House Committee 
on Ways and Means, Feb. 8, 2023, <a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/testimony/02082023.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/testimony/02082023.pdf</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In the sections that follow, the Department summarizes and responds 
to the comments received about the August 2025 NPRM's proposed 
requirement--finalized in this rule--that State UC agencies must 
disclose confidential UC information to Federal officials for purposes 
of UC program oversight and audits.

C. Statutory and Legal Background

1. Statutory Background
a. DOL Has Statutory Authority Under Section 303(a)(1), SSA, for This 
Rule
    Comments: A number of commenters objected to the Department using 
the ``methods of administration'' requirement of sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, 
as a statutory basis for the rulemaking. A State and an individual 
commenter expressed opposition to the Department's reliance on the 
language in sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, for authority to recast Sec.  603.5(i) 
from a ``permissive data-sharing provision'' into a mandatory 
requirement under Sec.  603.6(c). The individual commenter

[[Page 58597]]

stated that without congressional authority it would be beyond the 
Department's statutory authority to convert something permissible into 
a binding mandate. Similarly, a few commenters argued that because 
disclosures to Federal officials for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits were included in the existing regulation as permissible 
disclosures, such disclosures were not intended to be required and the 
Department may not now assert that these same disclosures are 
mandatory. Further, a commenter argued the methods of administration 
provision is meant to only address timeliness of payments and 
eligibility. One advocacy organization stated that the August 2025 
NPRM's claim that sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, requires disclosure to DOL-OIG 
reverses the Department's previous acknowledgement that it lacked the 
authority to require access to confidential information because the 
permissible framework in the regulation was a recognition of statutory 
constraints.
    Response: The Department has considered these positions and does 
not agree with them. The Department did not take the position that it 
does not have the authority to require this type of disclosure when it 
issued the 2006 Final Rule. The current regulation implemented a 
permissible disclosure in this instance, and the Department issued that 
rule without opining on its authority to require those same 
disclosures. Since the promulgation of the current regulation, State UC 
operations have been increasingly subjected to fraud schemes, and 
access to confidential UC information has increasingly become critical 
for supporting Federal officials in their oversight responsibilities to 
hold State UC agencies accountable for ensuring the integrity of the UC 
programs. As a result, this final rule conforms the regulation to 
reflect both the oversight responsibility of Federal officials and that 
disclosures to Federal officials for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits are necessary for the proper administration of the program.
    Agencies are free to change their existing policies as long as they 
provide a reasoned explanation for the change. Encino Motorcars, LLC v. 
Navarro, 579 U.S. 211, 221 (2016). The Department has provided a 
reasoned explanation for amending the permissible disclosure at Sec.  
603.5(i) to be a mandatory one at Sec.  603.6(c), pursuant to its 
discretionary authority to determine what methods of administration are 
necessary under sec. 303(a)(1), SSA. Accordingly, this rule is a 
reasonable exercise of the agency's statutory authority to determine 
what methods of administration are reasonably calculated to ensure 
payment of benefits when due.
b. Executive Order No 14243 Is Not the Basis for This Regulation
    Comments: A number of commenters asserted that there is a conflict 
between the language of sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, and E.O. 14243, and argued 
that the E.O. cannot be the basis for this regulation. An advocacy 
organization questioned the legality of E.O. 14243 but also noted that 
even the E.O. acknowledges that the authority for unfettered access is 
only to the extent it is allowed under the SSA.
    Response: The Department does not rely on E.O. 14243 for authority 
to promulgate the regulation. As explained above, the Department 
properly derives authority for this final rule from sec. 303(a)(1), 
SSA.
c. This Rule Does Not Present a Major Questions Doctrine Issue and Does 
Not Lack Congressional Authorization
    Comments: A few commenters disagreed with the Department's reliance 
on sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, for authority, arguing that this rule 
constitutes a ``major question'' and lacks clear congressional 
authorization. An advocacy organization asserted that the Department's 
interpretation of sec. 303(a)(1) is overbroad and stated that 
``[c]ourts have repeatedly held that general administrative provisions 
do not authorize sweeping new mandates absent clear congressional 
authorization.'' Further, the commenter argues that this rule 
implicates the major questions doctrine, stating that ``[t]he United 
States Supreme Court emphasized that in cases involving `major 
questions' of `vast economic and political significance,' agencies 
require `clear congressional authorization.''' According to the 
commenter, this rule presents a major question without clear 
congressional authorization.
    Response: The Department does not agree. The major questions 
doctrine provides that if on review a court finds that an agency action 
has vast political and economic significance and involves a shift in 
policy regarding a major issue, a reviewing court will critically 
assess whether Congress meant to confer authority on the agency to take 
such an extraordinary action. West Virginia v. EPA, 597 U.S. 697, 700 
(2022) (citing FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S. 120, 
159-60 (2000)). In such cases, the agency action will only be upheld if 
it is supported by ``clear congressional authorization'' in the 
statutory language. Id. (citing Utility Air Regulatory Grp. v. EPA, 573 
U.S. 302, 324 (2014)).
    This final rule is not an instance of extraordinary agency action. 
As described in detail above, the Department has long interpreted the 
disclosure of confidential UC information to be required when necessary 
for proper and efficient administration of the program (see, e.g., 
Sec.  603.6(a)). Due to the growing need to address fraud in UC 
programs, as explained previously in the Regulatory History section of 
this preamble, and the responsibility of Federal officials to hold 
States accountable for doing so, the Department has determined that 
requiring disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight and audits 
is necessary for the proper administration of the program under sec. 
303(a)(1), SSA, and, therefore, a condition of certification for UC 
administrative funding. The Department has determined that this 
oversight is necessary in part because program performance metrics have 
not sufficiently improved. This rule, which merely makes certain 
disclosures States are generally already making a required rather than 
a permissible disclosure, is not a major policy change, nor is it 
economically or politically significant. Accordingly, it does not 
constitute an extraordinary agency action or major question for the 
purpose of the major questions doctrine.
d. This Rule Is Not an Improper Shift of Power to the Federal 
Government
    Comments: An advocacy organization wrote that this rule is a shift 
of power toward the Federal Government, that it is a new interpretation 
of sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, and that although the provision allows the 
Secretary to require States to implement methods of administration 
necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the UC 
program, it has not been interpreted to require mandatory sharing of 
confidential UC data with the Department. The commenter stated the 
Department must point to clear congressional authorization for its 
claimed authority, particularly when it imposes a significant shift of 
power from the States to the Federal Government. And another advocacy 
organization argued that nothing in the statute authorizes the 
Department to ``compel States to provide wholesale access to wage 
records, Social Security numbers or employer data.'' Instead, the 
advocacy organization argues ``[t]he statutory purpose is to ensure 
workers receive their benefits `when due,' not to build a national 
surveillance system.'' Emphasizing that the UC system is intended to be 
a cooperative federalism system, the commenter argues that the

[[Page 58598]]

Department, in promulgating this rule, asserts authority that is much 
broader than the authority granted in the authorizing statute. Another 
commenter concluded that the August 2025 NPRM would place new 
obligations on States that would alter the Federal-State partnership 
governing UC and exceed the Department's authority under the statute.
    Response: As stated above in detail, this final rule is the 
codification of current Department expectation and State practice. 
Under sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, the Department has clear congressional 
authority to determine such disclosure is a method of administration 
necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the UC 
program. States are already providing information to the Department and 
DOL-OIG regularly for purposes of UC program oversight and audits under 
the existing regulation set forth at Sec.  603.5(i). Furthermore, fraud 
detrimentally impacts a State's ability to pay benefits ``when due,'' 
because it drains government resources that would otherwise serve the 
State's administration of benefits to other workers.
e. Statutory Authority Comes From 303(a)(1), Not 303(a)(6), SSA
    Comments: Commenters asserted that sec. 303(a)(6), SSA, which 
relates to the requirement that States, as a condition for receiving 
administrative grants, provide reports to the Secretary, should be used 
as the statutory basis for this rule.
    Response: The Department disagrees with comments that argue the 
authority for this final rule should come from sec. 303(a)(6), SSA, 
instead of 303(a)(1), SSA. This final rule requires disclosure of 
confidential UC information to Federal officials for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits. Section 303(a)(6) requires that State UC 
laws include provisions for ``[t]he making of such reports, in such 
form and containing such information, as the Secretary of Labor may 
from time to time require.'' The word ``reports'' in 303(a)(6) has 
historically been interpreted as distinct from raw data and both 
reports and the provision of raw data support UC program oversight and 
audits. In this final rule, the Department does not opine on the 
Department's authority to collect UC program information in the form of 
``reports'' under sec. 303(a)(6).
    The provision of disclosing confidential UC data to Federal 
officials for purposes of UC program oversight and audits facilitates 
critical efforts in holding State UC agencies accountable for 
identifying and preventing fraud activities in UC programs, which in 
turn reduces improper payments of benefits. Therefore, sec. 303(a)(1) 
stands as the basis for requiring disclosures to Federal officials for 
purposes of UC program oversight and audits.
2. Legal Background
a. Privacy Act of 1974
    Comments: Commenters expressed several concerns regarding 
compliance with the Privacy Act, including that the Department risks 
improperly disclosing federally held personal records without consent, 
exceeding the scope of its published SORN, exceeding the ``routine 
use'' exception, and violating the minimization principle. An advocacy 
organization was concerned that the proposed rule would not follow the 
Privacy Act's agency obligation to provide clear notice to individuals 
regarding how their information would be collected, maintained, and 
disclosed, nor would it contain a required provision requiring notice 
to UC claimants that their personal data would be shared with Federal 
officials. The advocacy organization argued that UC claimant data is 
collected under the SSA for the limited purpose of administering 
unemployment benefits, not for Federal investigations or potential law 
enforcement purposes. Therefore, the commenter reasoned, mandating 
disclosure for use beyond that purpose risks violating the Privacy 
Act's requirement that agencies collect and maintain only that data 
that is ``necessary'' to accomplish their statutory mission.
    Response: The Department does not intend this final rule to 
supersede or conflict with the requirements of any Federal law, 
including the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended. The 
Department must protect the confidential UC information it collects and 
maintains pursuant to this final rule in accordance with all 
requirements under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, 
as well as all other applicable Federal laws. Federal officials, 
including those within the Department and DOL-OIG, have long collected 
and maintained confidential UC information for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits to ensure the integrity of the UC program and that 
benefits are paid when due as required by sec. 303(a)(1), SSA. Any 
Federal official outside the Department that obtains confidential UC 
information under this rule for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits will also be required to comply with all applicable Federal 
laws, including the Privacy Act.
b. Constitutional Questions
    Comments: A commenter wrote that allowing unemployment data to be 
repurposed would deny individuals notice of the information disclosure, 
remove their ability to contest data use, and violate due process under 
the Fifth Amendment. An advocacy organization similarly argued that 
allowing unfettered access to confidential unemployment data without 
regard for the right to privacy would violate the Fourth Amendment.
    An advocacy organization argued that the Department's rule lacks 
the ``clear notice'' required by the Spending Clause and constitutes an 
unlawful ``retroactive'' grant condition. The commenter further 
asserted that ``the proposal's undefined requirement for States to 
share data for unspecified `oversight and audits''' would be a 
``fundamental shift in the program'' that the States could not 
anticipate and would exceed the limitations imposed by the 
Constitution's Spending Clause. In making this argument, the commenter 
referenced UC program confidentiality rules that, according to the 
commenter ``have included only limited provisions for sharing [data] 
with Federal agencies,'' including the original regulations from 1986 
that permitted States to share information with DOL only for the 
purpose of determining eligibility or benefit amounts and the existing 
regulations, which ``require disclosure only as `necessary for the 
proper administration of the UC program' or to specific agencies for 
specific purposes.'' The same advocacy organization further asserted 
that retroactive conditioning of Federal funds would ``violate anti-
commandeering principles of the Tenth Amendment'' because it commands 
States to share data as well as to build the infrastructure to do so.
    Response: The Department disagrees with the assertion that the 
Department's rule fails to provide the ``clear notice'' required by the 
Spending Clause. In South Dakota v. Dole, the Supreme Court outlined 
the framework governing Congress's authority under the Spending Clause 
to attach funding conditions to Federal award programs. 483 U.S. 203 
(1987). In relevant part the framework requires that ``if Congress 
desires to condition the States' receipt of federal funds, it must do 
so unambiguously, enabling the States to exercise their choice 
knowingly, cognizant of the consequences of their participation.'' See 
id.

[[Page 58599]]

    This final rule meets this standard. It is clear and unambiguous. 
It plainly describes the disclosure in the regulatory text of 20 CFR 
part 603 that was permissible but is now a required condition upon 
which State receipt of UC administrative funding depends. Accordingly, 
contrary to the commenter's claim, this rule satisfies the requirement 
that a funding condition attached to a Federal grant program allow 
recipients to ``knowingly'' accept the provisions.
    The same commenter also argues that the Department's rule is 
impermissibly ``retroactive'' under the Spending Clause and the anti-
commandeering doctrine. However, counter to the commenter's assertion, 
this rule will not apply retroactively; administrative funding already 
provided to States will not be impacted by the new condition it 
establishes. Even after the effective date of this rule, which is 60 
days after publication, the compliance date gives States 1 year to 
amend their State laws, if needed, to ensure they receive certification 
for receipt of administrative funding. Accordingly, this rule does not 
impose a retroactive condition and, consistent with Spending Clause 
jurisprudence, the publication of this rule puts States on notice of a 
new requirement upon which future certification for administrative 
funding will depend so that they may knowingly choose to accept the 
term going forward.
    Finally, for the reasons set out above, the required disclosure 
imposed by this rule does not commandeer the States. Indeed, Federal 
grant conditions are lawful so long as the States have a genuine choice 
whether to accept them. Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, 567 
U.S. 519, 579 (2012). States may knowingly choose to accept the terms, 
going forward.
    Moreover, the Department does not agree with the commenter's claim 
that this rule is a significant shift in the program as it currently 
exists. All States already provide UC information to Federal officials 
as requested for purposes of UC program oversight and audits under 
Sec.  603.5(i), which made the disclosure permissible and excepted such 
disclosure from the confidentiality requirement set forth in part 603. 
Due to the growing need to address fraud in the UC program, the 
Department has determined that requiring disclosures for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits is necessary for the proper administration 
of the program under sec. 303(a)(1), SSA, and, therefore, a condition 
of certification for administrative funding for the UC program. This 
rule is a reasonable exercise of the agency's statutory authority to 
determine what methods of administration are required in order for a 
State to be certified to receive funding to administer the UC program 
and does not constitute an unlawful commandeering of the States.

D. Comments Regarding Requiring Rather Than Permitting Disclosures of 
Confidential UC Data to Federal Officials for Purposes of UC Program 
Oversight and Audits

1. Written Agreements
    Comments: A State UC agency noted that absent a written agreement 
outlining the terms of the disclosures, States may be unable to track 
the movement of disclosed UC information. The agency further noted that 
in the event of a data breach, the lack of a written agreement will 
make it more difficult to determine who is responsible for the data 
breach, and potentially expose data requestors who have written 
agreements to legal and information technology expenses because the 
State will be unable to identify the source itself.
    Another State UC agency expressed concern that the August 2025 NPRM 
would eliminate data-sharing agreements and safeguards that current 
Federal law at Sec. Sec.  603.9 and 603.10 require for the disclosure 
of confidential UC information. The commenter asked for clarity 
regarding what sections of the confidentiality regulation apply to the 
mandated disclosure created by this rule, citing concerns about data 
breaches, leaks, and a loss of trust in the safety net system.
    Response: The change to Sec.  603.10 sets forth in this final rule 
is in response to these comments as well as others. The Department and 
DOL-OIG have an established working relationship with respect to UC 
program oversight and audits, and no written agreement is required for 
these disclosures under the current regulation. In response to the 
comments discussed above, among others, the Department added a new 
provision to Sec.  603.10 that requires Federal officials other than 
the Department, DOL-OIG, and GAO, who are requesting information 
pursuant to Sec.  603.6(c) to provide a request in writing to the State 
UC agency stating how the information will be used and how that use is 
for purposes of UC program oversight and audits. Additionally, this 
final rule requires requestors to limit their use of the information to 
the uses stated in the request, except as required by Federal law, and 
to cite to their authority for UC program oversight and audits. These 
justifications will increase transparency and are meant to provide 
context and accountability in data requests.
2. State UC Agency Impacts
a. Administrative Burdens and Possible Negative Impact on Services
    Comments: A few commenters, including unions and legal services 
providers, argued that the August 2025 NPRM would impose burdens on 
State UC agencies, which already face difficulty in executing their 
missions under their current funding levels. Some of these commenters 
reasoned that the additional burdens would require agencies to divert 
IT, staff, and legal resources away from current functions, 
exacerbating the agencies' existing operational challenges. A union 
added that this would increase the risk of data breaches. An individual 
and an advocacy organization asserted that the August 2025 NPRM could 
create unnecessary or duplicative processes and waste Federal and State 
funding and tax dollars.
    Some commenters raised concerns that the August 2025 NPRM could 
slow the delivery of payments under UC programs, noting that benefit 
processing is already slower than before the pandemic. Some pointed to 
recent funding disruptions and broader budget cuts as creating 
uncertainty about future administrative resources. Some unions and 
advocacy groups argued that this rule could divert critical staff and 
technology resources away from claims processing, potentially impacting 
timely payment of benefits.
    Some advocacy organizations argued that the August 2025 NPRM lacked 
clarity regarding the data collected, preventing States from providing 
feedback on that collection. Similarly, some legal services providers 
asserted that DOL should not put burdens on State UC agencies during a 
time of greater workloads without sufficient clarification of the data 
requested and its purpose.
    Commenters also highlighted confusion about how States would fund 
the costs associated with implementing this rule. Some noted 
understaffing, ongoing technology modernization, and reduced Federal 
support, such as through the rescission of one-time grants, as 
significant barriers. Commenters asked the Department to consider 
phased implementation, provide Federal funding or cost-sharing, and to 
require transparency measures to minimize administrative strain and 
ensure States can effectively comply.
    Response: The Department notes that the scope of disclosure largely 
remains the same as the existing regulation and

[[Page 58600]]

the Department believes the cost of changes will be minimal. States 
have been making disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits to the Department and to Federal officials, including DOL-OIG, 
for several years now.
    The Department clarifies that this final rule does not alter the 
existing regulation on the allowable scope of such a disclosure and 
does not modify protections or limitations on use of data that is 
applicable to these disclosures. The Department does not believe there 
will be a significant increase in UC data disclosures and therefore 
does not foresee a significant increase in legal, information 
technology, or human capital expenditures to divert resources away from 
current staff functions. The Department disagrees that this final rule 
increases the risk of data breaches or does not provide sufficient 
information to States regarding data to be collected. This final rule 
takes what States are permitted to do currently, and all States have 
been doing, and makes it a requirement. States' previous disclosures 
have provided sufficient experience to be able to comment effectively 
on this rule.
    The Department's addition to Sec.  603.10(e) requires certain 
Federal officials, other than the Department, DOL-OIG, and GAO, to 
provide requests in writing to the State UC agency stating how the 
information will be used and how that use is for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits; to limit their use of the information to the uses 
stated in the request, except as required by Federal law; and to cite 
the Federal official's authority for UC program oversight and audits 
under Sec.  603.6(c). This addition provides clarity to States 
responsible for disclosing confidential UC information to Federal 
officials other than the Department, DOL-OIG, and GAO.
    Additionally, the Department's amendment to Sec.  603.8 makes clear 
that disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight and audits are 
chargeable to a State's UC administrative grant.
b. Interaction With State Laws
    Comments: A union, a few advocacy organizations, and an individual 
commenter expressed concern that this rule lacked sufficient clarity 
such that State UC agencies would not be able to understand how the 
August 2025 NPRM would interact with existing State laws, would 
potentially duplicate existing processes, or both.
    Response: The Department clarifies that this final rule does not 
alter the existing regulation on the allowable scope of such a 
disclosure and does not modify protections or limitations on use of 
data that is applicable to these disclosures. This final rule takes 
what States are permitted to do currently and all States have been 
doing and codifies this as a requirement.
c. Inappropriate Burdens on Smaller States
    Comments: A few commenters warned that agencies in smaller States 
might face heavy burdens, including significant IT and compliance costs 
that could disrupt legitimate service delivery instead of decreasing 
fraudulent benefit payments.
    Response: This final rule does not alter the scope of disclosures 
under the existing regulation. This final rule takes what States are 
permitted to do currently and all States have been doing, including 
smaller States, and makes it a requirement.
3. UC Claimant Impacts
a. Risk to Privacy
    Comments: A few commenters, including advocacy organizations, 
critiqued the August 2025 NPRM for insufficiently demonstrating that 
the problem this rule is solving warrants the high risk to the privacy 
of individuals. An advocacy organization called the August 2025 NPRM 
``overly broad'' for authorizing the sharing of sensitive data without 
a clearly identified purpose or reasonable suspicion of fraud and 
argued that such access must be balanced with the need for privacy. 
Another advocacy organization argued that DOL failed to establish a 
nexus between the required data and the purposes of this rule, noting 
the high risk to individual privacy.
    Response: With respect to the purpose of this final rule, the 
August 2025 NPRM described the rise of fraud in the UC program and 
especially called out the increase in sophisticated multistate schemes 
as necessitating this final rule. The existing regulation does not 
address the realities of the ever-increasing sophistication of fraud 
schemes, and in particular organized multistate schemes. Increased data 
availability for Federal officials to perform UC program oversight and 
audits will allow the Federal Government to hold State UC agencies 
accountable for and further assist States in identifying and preventing 
fraud. This final rule adds Sec.  603.10(e) to address some of the 
concerns commenters expressed with respect to the purpose of such 
disclosures. Further, the Department notes that the purpose of 
disclosures under Sec.  603.6(c), UC program oversight and audits, is 
explicit in the provision.
b. Past Failures of Federal Data Control
    Comments: Some commenters, including advocacy organizations, 
individual commenters, and a professional association, identified 
examples of recent actions by the Administration that the commenters 
claim eroded public confidence and where the commenters claim the 
Administration failed to safeguard sensitive data, including 
cybersecurity failures and mishandling of data by the Department of 
Government Efficiency. An individual commenter reasoned that it would 
be ``reckless'' for States to allow Federal control of confidential 
data without trust in Federal processes to protect that data. An 
individual commenter compared it unfavorably to examples of government 
practices that prioritize the protection of confidential personal data, 
describing U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) procedures that limit 
access to employer survey responses and monitor research projects.
    Response: This final rule does not alter the existing regulation, 
as amended in 2006, regarding the allowable scope for disclosures of 
confidential UC information for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits. Additionally, this final rule does not modify the protections 
or limitations on use of data that is applicable to required 
disclosures. This final rule takes what States are permitted to do 
currently, and which all States have been doing, and makes it a 
requirement. Any Federal official that obtains confidential UC 
information under this rule for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits is required to comply with all applicable Federal laws, 
including those concerning security and privacy.
c. Concerns About Increased Oversight
    Comments: A professional association, a union, and an individual 
commenter warned that the August 2025 NPRM could lead to increased and 
inappropriate oversight of private citizens, risking civil liberties 
violations. Similarly, some commenters expressed particular concerns 
that collected data would be shared with immigration enforcement 
agencies and used in enforcement targeting, unfairly impacting 
immigrants.
    Response: The existing regulation at Sec.  603.5(i) limits the 
scope of disclosures to those made for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits. The August 2025 NPRM did not propose to alter the existing 
regulation on the allowable scope of such a disclosure, and this rule 
also does not modify the current protections or limitations on use

[[Page 58601]]

of data that are applicable to required disclosures, including those 
that apply across the Federal Government.
d. Claimants Deterred From Interaction With UC System
    Comments: Some commenters, including State UC agencies and an 
advocacy organization, asserted that the August 2025 NPRM could 
undermine confidence in the UC system, such that individuals may 
believe that their confidential information would not be adequately 
protected or would be used for broader purposes than UC oversight. Some 
commenters elaborated that this could deter legitimate claimants from 
accessing benefits under UC programs.
    Response: This final rule does not alter the existing regulation on 
the allowable scope of such a disclosure, and this rule also does not 
modify protections or limitations on use of data that is applicable to 
required disclosures. This final rule takes what States are permitted 
to do currently and all States have been doing and makes it a 
requirement.
    Any Federal official inside or outside the Department that obtains 
confidential UC information under this rule for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits will be required to comply with all applicable 
Federal laws, including those concerning data security and privacy. 
Therefore, the Department believes this rule does not dissuade 
individuals from filing claims for benefits or otherwise present a 
realistic barrier to access.
e. Increased Safety Risk for Certain Communities
    Comments: Some commenters, including advocacy organizations and 
individual commenters, criticized the August 2025 NPRM for lacking 
clarity on how the disclosed data would be secured and used, and 
furthermore expressed concern about the disproportionate harms that 
certain communities face when their private information is improperly 
disclosed or handled without sufficient care.
    Response: This final rule continues disclosures of confidential UC 
information that have been permissible and occurring since 2006. This 
final rule does not alter the existing regulation on the allowable 
scope of such a disclosure, and this rule also does not modify 
protections or limitations on use of data that is applicable to 
required disclosures. This final rule takes what States are permitted 
to do currently and all States have been doing and makes it a 
requirement. Therefore, the Department believes this rule does not 
cause or create any new or increased safety risk for certain 
communities due to unauthorized disclosure nor dissuade individuals 
from filing claims for benefits or otherwise present a realistic 
barrier to access.
f. Recommendations To Limit Negative Impacts on UC Claimants
    Comments: Several commenters, including advocacy organizations, a 
professional association, and a State UC agency, advocated for 
modifications to the August 2025 NPRM that would provide greater 
protections for UC claimants, such as improving transparency about data 
collection and use practices, prohibiting the use of UC information in 
immigration enforcement, and generally protecting against inappropriate 
use of confidential UC information. Another advocacy organization urged 
the Department to clarify who would have data access, limit that access 
to a small group of civil servant DOL employees, and limit the extent 
of their access to specific fraud investigations. Similarly, a few 
commenters requested that the Department clarify limitations on data 
use and sharing and specify disposal requirements.
    Response: The existing regulation at Sec.  603.5(i) limits the 
scope of disclosures to those that are for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits. This rule does not alter the existing regulation 
on the allowable scope of such a disclosure, and this rule also does 
not modify the current protections or limitations on use of data that 
are applicable to required disclosures, and those that apply across the 
Federal Government.
    Further, the Department's addition of Sec.  603.10(e), requires 
certain Federal officials other than the Department, DOL-OIG, and GAO, 
to provide requests in writing to the State UC agency stating how the 
information will be used and how that use is for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits under Sec.  603.6(c); to limit their use of the 
information to the uses stated in the request, except as required by 
Federal law; and to cite the Federal official's authority for UC 
program oversight and audits. This addition provides clarity to States 
responsible for disclosing confidential UC information to Federal 
officials.
g. Call for Specific Data Elements To Be Enumerated
    Comments: An advocacy organization and some individual commenters 
requested that the Department withdraw the August 2025 NPRM until it 
can clarify which information would be disclosed under the NPRM, such 
as whether it would extend beyond claims data to wage data, payment 
records, or other information beyond what is required for claims 
processing. Some of these commenters expressed particular concern about 
expanding the disclosure to include wage data, reasoning that such 
information is especially sensitive and its disclosure would have 
heightened implications for both individuals and States.
    Response: The Department declines to enumerate an exhaustive list 
of specific data elements required to be disclosed as this can vary in 
accordance with the specific UC program oversight or audit activity 
taking place. This rule does not change what UC information is subject 
to disclosure under Sec.  603.5(i) for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits, but rather, makes such disclosures a requirement. This 
final rule does not expand the categories of information that may be 
disclosed, nor does it authorize new uses of such information; rather, 
it takes what States are permitted to do currently and all States have 
been doing and makes it a requirement. Nor does the existing regulation 
specify specific data elements for other disclosures. Codifying a rigid 
list of data elements would unnecessarily constrain the oversight and 
audit function of Federal officials, as well as the UC system's ability 
to respond in a timely and effective manner to emerging fraud schemes 
and other risks that often evolve rapidly. Maintaining flexibility 
within established confidentiality protections allows the Federal-State 
partnership to adapt oversight activities as needed while continuing to 
safeguard claim information. The Department notes that Federal 
officials requesting data may do so, where applicable, in accordance 
with the Privacy Act, and issue SORNs, which identify the information 
being collected and are publicly available.
4. Employer Impacts
a. Concerns Regarding Sensitive or Confidential Information
    Comments: A State UC agency, a coalition of advocacy organizations, 
and an individual commenter expressed concern about releasing 
confidential or sensitive UC data to DOL. Likewise, State UC agencies 
critiqued the August 2025 NPRM for not defining a ``Federal official'' 
or which Federal entities or officials would gain access to the 
disclosed data for what purposes or oversight. A State UC agency 
articulated that while current practice allows States the discretion to 
determine if an information request aligns with State

[[Page 58602]]

interest, the NPRM would remove State discretion and data control.
    Response: This final rule does not alter the existing regulation, 
as amended in 2006, regarding the allowable scope of disclosures of 
confidential UC information for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits. Additionally, this final rule does not modify the protections 
or limitations on use of data that are applicable to required 
disclosures. This final rule takes what States are permitted to do 
currently, and which all States have been doing, and makes it a 
requirement. Any Federal official that obtains confidential UC 
information under this rule for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits is required to comply with all applicable Federal laws, 
including those concerning security and privacy. With respect to 
concerns about defining ``Federal official'' or identifying specific 
Federal entities, the definition of ``Federal official'' has not been 
altered and retains the same meaning as in the existing regulation. The 
Department notes that access to confidential UC information is limited 
to authorized personnel acting within the scope of their official 
duties related to UC program oversight and audits.
    Regarding deference to State discretion over whether to provide 
requested information, the Department emphasizes that the UC program is 
a Federal-State partnership in which Federal oversight is a core 
statutory responsibility. Effective program integrity in the UC system 
increasingly depends on the ability to identify risks and fraud 
schemes. Responding to requests from Federal officials seeking 
confidential UC information for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits enables nationwide analysis, coordination, and oversight that 
individual States, acting alone, are not positioned to perform. Federal 
access to this information for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits supports the detection of multistate fraud patterns, the 
assessment of systemic vulnerabilities, and the development of targeted 
guidance and corrective actions that strengthen the integrity of the UC 
system as a whole. Requiring disclosure of this information removes any 
barriers to access that might arise: (1) when the requirement for such 
disclosure is subject to time-limited conditions of individual grants; 
or (2) States choosing not to disclose due to the disclosure being 
permissive--thus streamlining access to data now and into the future. 
Mandating disclosure strengthens overall program integrity by, among 
other things, ensuring that oversight activities are informed by 
complete and consistent data, thereby protecting public resources.
    Further, the Department's addition to Sec.  603.10(e), requires 
certain Federal officials other than the Department, DOL-OIG, and GAO 
to provide requests in writing to the State UC agency stating how the 
information will be used and how that use is for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits under Sec.  603.6(c); to limit their use of the 
information to the uses stated in the request, except as required by 
Federal law; and to cite the Federal official's authority for UC 
program oversight and audits. This addition provides clarity to States 
responsible for disclosing confidential UC information to Federal 
officials.
b. Recommendations for Limits on Data Sharing
    Comments: Some State UC agencies recommended that the Department 
explicitly clarify limits on data sharing and usage to protect the 
confidentiality of employer information, including by providing clear 
and strict parameters for storing, maintaining, and securing data.
    Response: This final rule does not expand the categories of 
information that may be disclosed, nor does it authorize new uses of 
such information; rather, it requires disclosure of information that 
States are already disclosing to Federal officials for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits. Any Federal official that obtains 
confidential UC information under this rule for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits will be required to comply with all applicable 
Federal laws, including the Privacy Act. Further, in response to 
concerns raised by commenters, Sec.  603.10(e) of this final rule now 
specifies that other Federal officials who request confidential UC 
information from State UC agencies must limit their use of the 
confidential UC information to the uses stated in the written request, 
except as required by Federal law.
5. Suggestions for Other Approaches the Department Could Take
a. Updating Rulemaking
    Comments: An advocacy organization reasoned that the August 2025 
NPRM would benefit from more feedback from experts and advocates, and 
so recommended that DOL issue an updated RFI to solicit additional 
information from the regulated community and stakeholders, and then 
prepare an updated NPRM based on that feedback. Similarly, an 
individual commenter urged DOL to consult with employers and payroll 
departments to develop a new NPRM that would provide more information 
to States and employers about the kinds of data that would be collected 
and how it would be used.
    Response: The Department declines the recommendation to issue an 
additional RFI or to initiate a new NPRM for this change. As explained 
in the August 2025 NPRM and in the letter denying the comment period 
extension requests posted to the docket, the Department previously 
engaged with the regulated community on the topics covered in the 
August 2025 NPRM, including through the 2023 RFI. The Department also 
announced at that time that it was considering comprehensive updates to 
the UC confidentiality regulations and that information received in 
response to the 2023 RFI would inform and be considered by the 
Department as part of that potential rulemaking. The August 2025 NPRM 
was more limited in scope than the 2023 RFI and included a 30-day 
comment period for stakeholders to further provide comment on the 
changes the Department proposed to make to the Part 603 regulation.
b. Consider Existing or Targeted Policy Approaches
    Comments: Several commenters recommended alternative targeted 
approaches to strengthen fraud prevention, such as increasing grants to 
States, developing interstate data cooperation mechanisms, establishing 
a limited-scope channel for IGs to collect specific records, and using 
aggregated data to identify potential areas for fraud and target more 
specific data requests. A union also emphasized the importance of 
congressional action to prevent fraud in the UC system. Commenters also 
discussed State efforts already underway, including using Department-
provided tools under the Unemployment Insurance Integrity Center. A 
union identified declining improper payment rates as evidence current 
State efforts are working, thus precluding the need for this rule. The 
individual commenter went further, criticizing the Department for 
declining to consider such alternative, targeted policy solutions in 
the August 2025 NPRM. Some unions reasoned that because the emergency 
programs established during the pandemic, which saw high rates of 
fraud, have since expired, any fraud that resulted from those programs 
also will have ceased, thus eliminating the need for the NPRM.
    Response: The Department agrees that strengthening fraud prevention 
in the UC system requires sustained attention and continued investment. 
Although

[[Page 58603]]

fraud associated with pandemic-era programs has declined following the 
expiration of those programs, fraud and improper payments in the UC 
system remain a persistent concern. The UC program operates counter-
cyclically. Arguments that the type of fraud experienced during the 
pandemic was unique to the now-expired CARES Act programs do not 
address the realities of the ever-increasing sophistication and 
national-scope of fraud schemes, or the need to ensure the resilience 
of the UC system for future economic downturns. Longstanding structural 
challenges, such as legacy information technology systems, staffing 
constraints, and uneven fraud detection capabilities, continue to 
create vulnerabilities. As documented by DOL-OIG, pandemic aside, the 
UC program has experienced some of the highest improper payment rates 
across Federal programs for many years, underscoring the ongoing need 
for effective oversight and modernization.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \8\ DOL-OIG, ``U.S. Department of Labor's Top Management and 
Performance Challenges,'' Jan. 2026, <a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/DOL-OIG%202025%20Top%20Management%20and%20Performance%20Challenges.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/DOL-OIG%202025%20Top%20Management%20and%20Performance%20Challenges.pdf</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The Department does not view this final rule as inconsistent with, 
or a substitute for, the existing or targeted policy approaches 
recommended by commenters. To the contrary, many of the strategies 
cited, such as identity verification tools, IT modernization efforts, 
interstate coordination mechanisms, and the use of aggregated data to 
identify risk, are complementary to providing data access for purposes 
of UC program oversight and audits. With respect to the improper 
payment rate, while it has declined since the pandemic ended, the 
decline resulted from significant joint efforts between the States and 
the Federal Government, and yet the national average remains above the 
ten percent target.
    The Department considered alternatives such as reliance on 
voluntary cooperation, existing policy tools, or targeted initiatives. 
However, those approaches alone do not provide the level of consistency 
and timeliness necessary for effective oversight of the UC system.
6. Other Comments About the Proposed Requirement
a. Unspecified Use of Disclosed Data
    Comments: Some commenters, including State UC agencies and advocacy 
organizations, expressed concern that the August 2025 NPRM did not 
specify the purpose and use of the collected confidential UC 
information, with a State UC agency and State elected official urging 
the Department to describe and limit the uses of the collected 
information. An advocacy organization similarly recommended that the 
Department withdraw the August 2025 NPRM to address these concerns and 
identify specific data points requested and the reasons for each. 
Likewise, an anonymous commenter wrote that data usage should be 
limited to program integrity audits and fraud detection and that 
restricting eligibility for or reduction of benefits should be 
prohibited. Finally, some commenters expressed concern that the 
Department's statements about E.O. 14243 indicate that the Department 
wants unfettered access to confidential UC information and that the 
Department has been unclear about whether either the Department will 
share confidential information beyond the needs of the UC program or 
the States will be required to widely share confidential UC information 
with Federal officials who may use the data for various non-UC 
purposes.
    Response: The Department reiterates that any Federal official that 
obtains confidential UC information under this rule for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits will be required to comply with all 
applicable Federal laws, including the Privacy Act. These purposes are 
consistent with existing statutory and regulatory authority and do not 
extend to Department actions on eligibility determinations or benefit 
reductions. Furthermore, the Department added a new provision to Sec.  
603.10 that requires Federal officials other than the Department, DOL-
OIG, and GAO who are requesting information pursuant to Sec.  603.6(c) 
to provide requests in writing to the State UC agency stating how the 
information will be used and how that use is for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits; to limit their use of the information to the uses 
stated in the request, except as required by Federal law; and to cite 
to the Federal official's authority for UC program oversight and 
audits.
b. Lack of Privacy Protection for Disclosed Data
    Comments: State UC agencies and an anonymous commenter expressed 
concern that the August 2025 NPRM did not include provisions detailing, 
nor did the NPRM provide any assurances regarding how the Department 
will protect and secure the confidential UC information it will collect 
and store under this rule. A State UC agency elaborated that the threat 
of data breaches continually increases as data hacking grows more 
sophisticated. Similarly, a different State UC agency questioned what 
data transfer methodology would be used, expressing concern that data 
technologies in their State might have insufficient firewall 
protections despite ongoing modernization efforts. The commenter 
further remarked that without data-sharing agreements, States might be 
vulnerable to legal liability for data breaches. An anonymous commenter 
urged the Department to mandate protections such as encryption, data 
minimization, and destruction timelines for data that is no longer 
needed. Another State UC agency wrote that the August 2025 NPRM would 
``undoubtedly'' put confidential UC information at risk.
    Response: This final rule does not alter the existing regulation, 
as amended in 2006, regarding the allowable scope of such disclosures 
of confidential UC information for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits. Additionally, this final rule does not modify the protections 
or limitations on use of data that is applicable to required 
disclosures. This final rule takes what States are permitted to do 
currently, and which all States have been doing, and makes it a 
requirement. Any Federal official that obtains confidential UC 
information under this rule for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits is required to comply with all applicable federal laws, 
including those concerning security and privacy.
c. Undefined Terms
    Comments: Some commenters, including State UC agencies and an 
advocacy organization, described issues that could arise from terms 
being left undefined in the August 2025 NPRM, including whether the 
data could be used for other purposes and who could request this data. 
Commenters particularly identified ``Federal official,'' ``oversight,'' 
and ``UC program oversight and audits'' as terms they recommend be 
defined.
    Response: Under this final rule a State UC agency must disclose 
confidential UC information to Federal officials for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits. In requiring disclosure of information 
that is already permissible to disclose under existing confidentiality 
regulations, the terms ``Federal official'' and ``UC program oversight 
and audits'' retain the same meaning as in the existing regulation. 
Thus, the Department is not defining those terms in this final rule.

[[Page 58604]]

d. Requests To Retain Regulatory Language
    Comments: A few State UC agencies specified a preference for the 
Department to retain the current regulatory language of Sec.  603.5(i) 
without adding any regulatory text to Sec.  603.6.
    Response: The Department considered retaining the current 
regulatory language in Sec.  603.5(i) without adding a required 
disclosure to Federal officials for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits to Sec.  603.6. However, this proposed change provides for 
the Secretary and other Federal officials to be able to obtain the 
information needed from State UC agencies by removing barriers that 
might arise: (1) when the requirement for such disclosure is subject to 
time-limited conditions of individual grants; or (2) States choosing 
not to disclose due to the disclosure being permissive. This regulatory 
change streamlines access to the data now and into the future, thereby 
strengthening overall program integrity and ensuring proper oversight 
of the UC program. Audits and oversight of the UC program by the 
Department, DOL-OIG, and other Federal officials are essential for 
detecting fraud vulnerabilities and identifying possible solutions, and 
are necessary to hold State UC agencies accountable for administering 
the UC program consistent with Federal law requirements. The rise of 
fraud incidents and sophisticated multistate fraud schemes demand 
action by the Department to strengthen program integrity and safeguard 
the UC program from fraudulent activity.
7. Implementation, Compliance, and Enforcement
    Comments: A few commenters provided suggestions to improve 
implementation of the August 2025 NPRM. A couple State UC agencies 
asserted that implementation would require rule and legislative changes 
in their State, with one warning that such changes could not be made 
immediately. An individual commenter recommended that the Department 
consider time-limited pilots with sunset clauses as a possible 
moderated policy approach.
    Another individual commenter noted that States vary widely in terms 
of their privacy laws, data storage capabilities, and technical 
capacities, and warned that assuming uniform readiness among the States 
to implement the August 2025 NPRM would lead to unattainable compliance 
standards and result in many agencies potentially facing penalties for 
circumstances beyond their control.
    Response: The Department notes that the scope of disclosure largely 
remains the same as the existing regulation and the Department believes 
the cost of changes will be minimal. States have been making 
disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight and audits to the 
Department and DOL-OIG for several years now. Even after the effective 
date of this rule, which is 60 days after publication, the compliance 
date gives States 1 year to amend their State laws, if needed.
8. Administrative Procedure Act Arguments
    Comments: Some commenters argued the August 2025 NPRM did not meet 
the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). The 
commenters raised concerns that the NPRM lacked sufficient detail for 
commenters to meaningfully respond and that the Department did not 
provide adequate notice and period to respond. Additionally, commenters 
concluded that the NPRM fell short of the APA's requirements on several 
fronts, namely by failing to offer adequate justification, ignoring 
States' reliance interests under existing confidentiality laws, and not 
considering less intrusive alternatives (e.g., aggregate or de-
identified data).
    Response: The Department disagrees with the commenters' assertions 
that the August 2025 NPRM did not meet the requirements of the APA. The 
Department notes that in addition to discussing the proposed changes to 
the regulatory text, the August 2025 NPRM provided specific regulatory 
text. The Department is adopting that text with changes that, as 
discussed above, stem directly from the comments received. The 
Department provided adequate notice and opportunity for comment through 
the publication of the August 2025 NPRM and the 2023 RFI, and their 
accompanying comment periods, as explained in section II of this 
preamble.
    As explained in the August 2025 NPRM and throughout this preamble, 
the Department is amending part 603 to require disclosure of 
confidential UC information to Federal officials, including DOL-OIG, 
for purposes of UC program oversight and audits to ensure the UC 
program is being administered consistent with Federal law and to 
identify and prevent fraud. The Department did not identify reliance 
interest concerns under existing confidentiality laws as the purpose 
and scope of the subject disclosures have not changed. The disclosures 
required by this final rule, which are already permissible and 
occurring under existing confidentiality regulations for purposes of 
Federal oversight and audits, remain subject to existing 
confidentiality, privacy, and data-security requirements.
    The statement that the Department failed to consider less intrusive 
alternatives is incorrect. The Department analyzed reasonable 
regulatory alternatives, including making no change to part 603 
concerning disclosure of confidential UC information to Federal 
officials. Ultimately, the Department determined this final rule was 
necessary to ensure the UC program is being administered consistent 
with Federal law and to identify and prevent fraud. The Department's 
analysis is detailed in section IV.A.2 of this preamble.

IV. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices

A. Executive Orders 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review), 13563 
(Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review), and 14192 (Unleashing 
Prosperity Through Deregulation), and Subtitle E of the Small Business 
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996

    E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review'' (58 FR 51735 (Oct. 
4, 1993)), requires agencies, to the extent permitted by law, to: (1) 
propose or adopt a regulation only upon a reasoned determination that 
its benefits justify its costs (recognizing that some benefits and 
costs are difficult to quantify); (2) tailor regulations to impose the 
least burden on society, consistent with obtaining regulatory 
objectives, taking into account, among other things, and to the extent 
practicable, the costs of cumulative regulations; (3) select, in 
choosing among alternative regulatory approaches, those approaches that 
maximize net benefits; (4) to the extent feasible, specify performance 
objectives, rather than specifying the behavior or manner of compliance 
that regulated entities must adopt; and (5) identify and assess 
available alternatives to direct regulation, including providing 
economic incentives to encourage the desired behavior, such as user 
fees or marketable permits, or providing information upon which choices 
can be made by the public.
    Section 6(a) of E.O. 12866 also requires agencies to submit 
``significant regulatory actions,'' as defined by section 3(f) of that 
order, to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), 
which is part of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). OIRA has 
determined that this final rule is a ``significant regulatory action'' 
under section 3(f) of E.O. 12866. Accordingly, this final rule was 
submitted to OIRA for review. E.O. 13563 directs agencies

[[Page 58605]]

to propose or adopt a regulation only upon a reasoned determination 
that its benefits justify its costs; it is tailored to impose the least 
burden on society, consistent with achieving the regulatory objectives; 
and in choosing among alternative regulatory approaches, the agency has 
selected those approaches that maximize net benefits.
    E.O. 14192, titled ``Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation,'' 
was issued on January 31, 2025. This final rule is exempt from E.O. 
14192 pursuant to section (5)(c) of the E.O.
    Pursuant to Subtitle E of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act of 1996, also known as the Congressional Review Act (5 
U.S.C. 801 et seq.), OIRA has designated this rule as not a ``major 
rule,'' as defined by 5 U.S.C. 804(2).
1. Statement of Need
    The Department amends 20 CFR part 603 to require, rather than 
permit, the disclosure of confidential UC information to Federal 
officials for purposes of UC program oversight and audits. Since this 
regulation was first promulgated, and as State UC operations have 
evolved, States have faced increased fraud incidents, including 
sophisticated multistate fraud schemes by organized criminals. During 
the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a sizable increase in fraudulent 
activity costing UC programs billions of dollars according to estimates 
by DOL-OIG. DOL-OIG identified $45.6 billion in potentially fraudulent 
benefits under UC programs in six high-risk areas,\9\ and it estimated 
$191 billion in benefits under UC programs during the pandemic period 
could have been paid improperly, with a significant portion 
attributable to fraud.\10\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \9\ DOL-OIG Alert Memorandum: Potentially Fraudulent 
Unemployment Insurance Payments in High-Risk Areas Increased to 
$45.6 Billion Report Number: 19-22-005-03-315, issued Sept. 21, 
2022, <a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2022/19-22-005-03-315.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2022/19-22-005-03-315.pdf</a>.
    \10\ ``The Greatest Theft of American Tax Dollars: Unchecked 
Unemployment Fraud,'' Hearing, Statement for the Record of Larry D. 
Turner, Inspector General, U.S. Department of Labor; House Committee 
on Ways and Means, Feb. 8, 2023, <a href="https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/testimony/02082023.pdf">https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/testimony/02082023.pdf</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The Secretary must have the tools necessary to ensure that UC 
programs are administered consistent with the requirements of Federal 
law. Mandatory disclosure of confidential UC information to Federal 
officials, including DOL-OIG, for purposes of UC program oversight and 
audits is essential to ensure the UC program is being administered 
consistent with Federal law and to identify and prevent fraud. 
Codifying the requirement for such disclosures allows Federal officials 
to fully utilize UC program oversight and audits to hold State UC 
agencies accountable in identifying and preventing fraud in UC 
programs.
2. Alternatives Considered
    OMB Circular A-4, which outlines best practices in regulatory 
analysis, directs agencies to analyze reasonable regulatory 
alternatives to the proposed regulatory action. Accordingly, the 
Department considered two alternatives regarding disclosure of 
confidential UC information to Federal officials for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits.
    The first alternative was to make comprehensive updates to part 
603, including to require States to disclose confidential UC 
information to DOL-OIG for purposes of UC program oversight and audits. 
The comprehensive updates the Department considered and that were 
described in the Fall 2024 Unified Agenda of Regulatory and 
Deregulatory Actions would have included additional amendments 
regarding issues raised by stakeholders over the years, including 
addressing questions around sharing information across the workforce 
system, the permissibility and use cases of sharing information with 
agencies within the Department for analysis and evaluation, the 
permissibility of disclosing confidential UC information to federally 
recognized Indian Tribes, data warehousing, and the use of contractors 
and subcontractors. While the Department gained valuable information 
from the engagement with stakeholders and the 2023 RFI, the Department 
ultimately decided that the most critical step needed at this time was 
to address fraud in UC programs by ensuring that Federal officials, 
including DOL-OIG, have access to data to conduct oversight and combat 
fraud.
    Another option considered was to make no change to part 603 
concerning disclosure of confidential UC information to Federal 
officials, including to DOL-OIG. The Department decided against 
maintaining the status quo because the rise of fraud incidents and 
sophisticated multistate fraud schemes demand immediate action by the 
Department to ensure that Federal officials continue to have the access 
now and into the future to confidential UC information for purposes of 
UC program oversight and audits by removing any barriers that might 
arise: (1) when the requirement for such disclosure is subject to time-
limited conditions of individual grants; or (2) States choosing not to 
disclose due to the disclosure being permissive. Proceeding with this 
regulatory change, thus, will strengthen the overall program integrity 
for Federal officials to hold States accountable for ensuring benefits 
are paid only to eligible individuals and withheld from those who are 
ineligible, thus assisting with the statutory requirement for accurate 
and timely payments under sec. 303(a)(1), SSA.
3. Economic Analysis
    The Department conducted an economic analysis to determine the 
costs of this final rule and to consider the benefits and the impact of 
transfers under this rule. The Department recognizes potential costs of 
this rule for required one-time technological upgrades, compliance 
costs, and recurring costs related to data submission. However, data 
availability prevents the Department from estimating these costs. 
Despite its efforts to gather information through a survey of nine 
States, the 2023 RFI, and the August 2025 NPRM, the Department did not 
receive enough data that would allow for the quantification of 
realistic cost estimates. State UC agencies are largely already 
disclosing the information that this final rule codifies to the 
Department and DOL-OIG, minimizing any new costs.
    Additionally, this final rule imposes a one-time regulatory 
familiarization cost on the 53 State UC agencies. These costs are 
associated with State UC agency staff reviewing the new regulation and 
conducting internal discussions and are determined using BLS 
Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics (OEWS) data and estimates 
of the time required to become familiar with this rule.
    The Department considers the benefits of this final rule to be 
substantial, including ensuring program integrity and building and 
maintaining public trust in the UC system. Specific benefits include 
enhancement of fraud prevention, identification, and investigation and 
providing strong oversight and accountability through timely audits and 
evaluations. Data availability and uncertainty limit the Department's 
ability to quantify the benefits of this rule.
    Comments: Some commenters, including an advocacy organization, a 
union, and individual commenters, expressed concern that the August 
2025 NPRM's economic analysis was insufficient because it did not 
quantify the NPRM's costs or adequately demonstrate that its benefits 
outweigh its costs. An anonymous commenter suggested that the 
Department publish a

[[Page 58606]]

quantitative cost-benefit analysis and sector-specific prevalence data 
to justify the need for this rule. An advocacy organization 
specifically criticized the Department for not quantifying additional 
workloads on State UC agencies associated with broad, mandatory data-
sharing requirements. The commenter furthermore warned that this rule 
would place increased strain on State UC agency budgets already 
stretched due to decreasing Federal funding, a strain that could 
interfere with State UC agencies' ability to fulfill their statutory 
obligations for prompt payment, risking material impacts on UC 
recipients.
    Response: The Department does not anticipate that the costs 
associated with this final rule will be economically significant. 
States are currently processing permissible disclosure requests from 
Federal officials. Any additional costs would arise from the change to 
these being required disclosures. The Department does not expect a 
significant increase in the number of disclosures under this rule 
compared to the number of disclosures States provide to Federal 
officials for UC program oversight and audits under the existing 
regulation.
    Despite its efforts to gather information through the 2023 RFI and 
the 2024 survey of nine States, the Department did not receive enough 
data to provide reasonable cost estimates. Moreover, the Department did 
not receive public comments or input in response to the August 2025 
NPRM that would make quantification of the compliance costs feasible.
    Comments: A few commenters critiqued the August 2025 NPRM as 
lacking evidence that it would add value to existing State UC integrity 
efforts. A few State UC agencies and a State elected official asserted 
that the NPRM likely would be duplicative of States' efforts to combat 
UC fraud and would not add value while introducing fiscal inefficiency 
and data security risks into the UC system. Further, the commenters 
cautioned that the Department would incur staffing and infrastructure 
costs to accommodate increased data storage, maintenance, and security.
    Response: The Department recognizes that significant efforts have 
been made across the UC system to combat UC fraud. While the Department 
acknowledges commenters' concerns about potential overlap with State 
initiatives, the Department's primary goal is to enhance existing fraud 
prevention measures, thereby complementing State efforts rather than 
duplicating them, and informing efforts to hold States accountable for 
continuing such efforts.
    Although the implementation of new requirements may incur staffing 
and infrastructure costs to the Department, these investments are 
crucial for strengthening the integrity of the UC system. The 
Department anticipates that this rulemaking will provide important 
benefits, particularly in terms of fraud prevention and program 
integrity.
a. Rule Familiarization Costs
    Regulatory familiarization costs represent direct costs to the 53 
State UC agencies with UC programs that will need to review the new 
regulation in order to implement it. Consequently, this final rule will 
impose a one-time familiarization cost to those entities in the first 
year after promulgation. The Department anticipates that the changes 
introduced by this rule will be reviewed by General and Operations 
Managers (SOC code 11-1021), Lawyers (SOC code 23-1011), and Computer 
Systems Analysts (SOC code 15-1211) employed by State UC agencies 
within the State government.\11\ The Department anticipates that it 
will take one State UC Manager, one Lawyer, and one Computer Systems 
Analyst an average of 1 hour each to review this rule and hold a 
meeting concerning this rule.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \11\ This analysis uses codes from the Standard Occupational 
Classification (SOC) system and the North American Industry 
Classification System.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The BLS OEWS data shows that the mean hourly wage of a State 
government General and Operations Manager is $63.12.\12\ The Department 
assumes a 62-percent benefits rate \13\ and a 17-percent overhead 
rate,\14\ so the fully loaded wage rate is $112.98 [= $63.12 + ($63.12 
x 62%) + ($63.12 x 17%)]. The BLS OEWS data show that the mean hourly 
wage of a State government Lawyer is $58.24.\15\ The fully loaded wage 
rate is $104.25 [= $58.24 + ($58.24 x 62%) + ($58.24 x 17%)]. The BLS 
OEWS data show that the mean hourly wage of a State government Computer 
Systems Analyst is $44.97.\16\ The fully loaded wage rate is $80.50 [= 
$44.97 + ($44.97 x 62%) + ($44.97 x 17%)].
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \12\ General and Operations Managers (11-1021), for industry 
type ``State Government, excluding Schools and Hospitals,'' period 
May 2025. Data extracted on July 16, 2026, from <a href="https://www.bls.gov/oes/">https://www.bls.gov/oes/</a>.
    \13\ BLS, ``National Compensation Survey, Employer Costs for 
Employee Compensation,'' <a href="https://www.bls.gov/ecec/data.htm">https://www.bls.gov/ecec/data.htm</a> (last 
visited July 16, 2026). For State and local government workers, 
wages and salaries averaged $39.87 per hour worked in 2025, while 
benefit costs averaged $24.86, which is a benefits rate of 62 
percent.
    \14\ Cody Rice, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, ``Wage 
Rates for Economic Analyses of the Toxics Release Inventory 
Program,'' June 10, 2002, <a href="https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OPPT-2014-0650-0005">https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OPPT-2014-0650-0005</a>.
    \15\ Lawyers (23-1011) for industry type ``State Government, 
excluding Schools and Hospitals,'' period May 2025. Data extracted 
on July 16, 2026, from <a href="https://www.bls.gov/oes">https://www.bls.gov/oes</a>.
    \16\ Computer Systems Analysts (15-1211) for industry type 
``State Government, excluding Schools and Hospitals,'' period May 
2025. Data extracted on July 16, 2026, from <a href="https://www.bls.gov/oes">https://www.bls.gov/oes</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The time burden of 1 hour was multiplied by the estimated number of 
entities (53) and the total of the loaded hourly wage rate of the 
readers ($112.98 + $104.25 + $80.50 = $297.73). This calculation 
results in a one-time undiscounted cost of $15,780 in the first year 
after this rule takes effect.
b. Technology Costs for State UC Agencies
    This final rule may require States to update computer systems and 
security protocols in order to comply with Federal and State laws 
concerning safeguarding confidential UC information. State UC agencies 
already have processes and systems in place for providing information 
to Federal officials, including the Department and DOL-OIG. The 
Department is unable to quantify the number of States that may need to 
perform additional IT updates to accommodate the changes from this rule 
and determine whether updates will require upgrades to existing 
technology or the purchasing of new components.
    Comments: Some individual commenters remarked that if States are 
required only to submit information they have already been providing in 
recent years, then updates to their IT systems would not be necessary. 
In the same vein, a union noted that the August 2025 NPRM stated that 
the NPRM could impose compliance costs for new technologies or upgrades 
to manage data submissions, but questioned what these potential costs 
might be if the NPRM would only continue current fraud prevention 
efforts. A State UC agency asserted it would face minimal impacts 
because it already provides this data to DOL on a quarterly basis.
    Conversely, some unions expressed concern about potential costs to 
States to develop and maintain new IT systems or to reconfigure 
existing ones under this rule, especially amid Federal funding cuts.
    A State UC agency said that they are currently undergoing 
modernization efforts and would need to consult with their vendor to 
determine the extent of changes and costs required to be compliant with 
the August 2025 NPRM.
    Response: Regarding the absence of responses regarding cost 
estimates to the August 2025 NPRM, this gap in data is

[[Page 58607]]

primarily due to insufficient information gathered. Stakeholders did 
not provide the Department with enough input to generate realistic cost 
projections from the 2023 RFI or the 2024 survey. Furthermore, the 
Department did not obtain any public comments or feedback based on the 
August 2025 NPRM that would enable the quantification of compliance 
costs.
    As discussed in section II of this preamble, this final rule does 
not address the creation of a national UC claims database. Based on the 
changes in this final rule, many States will not face significant IT 
investment requirements, or require new IT systems, since many State UC 
agencies are already providing this information to Federal officials, 
including DOL-OIG, through permissible disclosures.
c. Costs for States To Make Changes to State Law
    The requirements for disclosures under State law vary from State to 
State. This final rule establishes required disclosures for purposes of 
UC program oversight and audits where those disclosures were 
permissible under the existing regulation. All States already provide 
UC information to Federal officials on a regular basis for purposes of 
UC program oversight and audits under the existing regulation. The 
Department is unable to identify those State law requirements that 
would need to change to conform to this final rule and therefore cannot 
quantify any associated costs.
    Comments: A State UC agency said no change in State laws would be 
required since its current State law permits sharing UC information 
with DOL, the Census Bureau, or their agents if required by law or as a 
condition of receiving Federal funding. Conversely, an individual 
commenter reasoned that because the August 2025 NPRM did not explain 
what data are implicated, States cannot estimate how their laws would 
be affected. A union asserted that the NPRM conflicted with State-level 
privacy protections in dozens of States.
    Response: There are several States that enumerate in their State 
laws each of the Federally required disclosures of confidential UC 
information. These States will need to change their State laws to 
include the required disclosures to Federal officials for purposes of 
UC program oversight and audits. Due to differences between State laws, 
the Department is unable to quantify the costs associated with changing 
State laws.
d. Costs for Data Request Fulfillment
    Grant funds may be used to cover the costs of providing required 
data under this rule to Federal officials for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits. It is not clear whether the data requests 
received will be the same requests for data that States already 
fulfill, or whether the amended rule will result in new requests. 
Generally speaking, the Department does not expect the number of 
requests for disclosures to increase significantly because the purpose 
of the required disclosure remains narrow; however, there is a 
possibility that disclosure requests may increase. Because of this 
ambiguity, the Department cannot quantify the magnitude of the 
potential increased costs to the States of responding to the data 
requests. Further, State UC administrative grant funds may be used by 
the States, where available, to offset possible increases in costs.
    Comments: An individual commenter said the August 2025 NPRM did not 
clarify how costs to States to comply with this rule would be paid.
    Response: The Department's amendment to Sec.  603.8 makes clear 
that disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight and audits are 
chargeable to a State's UC administrative grant.
e. Non-Quantifiable Benefits
    This final rule is expected to generate several important 
unquantified benefits that support the integrity and effectiveness of 
the UC program. Chief among these is the enhancement of fraud 
prevention and detection capabilities. By requiring the disclosure of 
confidential UC information to Federal officials for purposes of UC 
program oversight and audits, this final rule removes any barriers that 
might arise: (1) when the requirement for such disclosure is subject to 
time-limited conditions of individual grants; or (2) States choosing 
not to disclose due to the disclosure being permissive. This regulatory 
change streamlines access to the data now and into the future, thereby 
strengthening overall program integrity for Federal officials to hold 
States accountable for ensuring that benefits are paid only to eligible 
individuals and withheld from those who are ineligible, thus assisting 
with the statutory requirement for accurate and timely payments under 
sec. 303(a)(1), SSA. This regulatory change also enables nationwide 
analysis, coordination, and oversight that individual States, acting 
alone, are not positioned to perform.
    In addition, this final rule promotes stronger oversight and 
accountability by facilitating consistent and timely audits by Federal 
officials. This oversight helps the Federal Government to ensure that 
State UC programs are administered in compliance with Federal law and 
best practices. Federal access to this information helps identify 
multistate fraud patterns,\17\ assess systemic vulnerabilities, and 
inform targeted guidance and corrective actions to strengthen the 
integrity of the UC system as a whole. As noted earlier in this 
preamble, this final rule merely aligns the part 603 regulations with 
longstanding practice, and States already have processes and systems in 
place for sharing UC information with Federal officials; accordingly, 
the Department expects this final rule to have minimal impacts and 
limited incremental costs and benefits. This final rule formalizes that 
practice and closes an oversight gap by requiring States to disclose 
such information upon request to the Department and other Federal 
officials for purposes of UC program oversight and audits.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \17\ OIG Audit Report, COVID-19: ETA Needs to Improve its 
Oversight of States' Efforts to Identify Multistate UI Fraud, August 
2, 2025; <a href="https://oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2025/19-25-004-03-315.pdf">https://oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2025/19-25-004-03-315.pdf</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Moreover, because this rule requires disclosure of confidential UC 
information to Federal officials for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits, this final rule supports program integrity and performance. 
This approach enhances the efficiency and responsiveness of the UC 
program. This final rule also aligns with recent executive orders aimed 
at reducing information silos and improving interagency collaboration 
to combat waste, fraud, and abuse.
    Finally, by reinforcing transparency and accountability in the 
administration of the UC program, this final rule helps to build and 
maintain public trust in the system. Although these potential benefits 
are not readily quantifiable, they represent significant improvements 
in the administration, oversight, and public perception of the UC 
program.

B. Regulatory Flexibility Act

    The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), 5 U.S.C. chapter 6, requires 
the Department to evaluate the economic impact of this rule on small 
entities. The RFA defines small entities to include small businesses, 
small organizations (including not-for-profit organizations), and small 
governmental jurisdictions. The Department must determine whether this 
rule imposes a significant economic impact on a substantial number of 
such small entities. The Department concludes that this rule

[[Page 58608]]

does not regulate any small entities directly, so any regulatory effect 
on small entities will be indirect. Accordingly, the Department has 
determined this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a 
substantial number of small entities within the meaning of the RFA.

C. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995

    The purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), 44 
U.S.C. 3501 et seq., include minimizing the paperwork burden on 
affected entities. The PRA requires certain actions before an agency 
can adopt or revise a collection of information, including publishing 
for public comment a summary of the collection of information and a 
brief description of the need for and proposed use of the information.
    As part of its continuing effort to reduce paperwork and respondent 
burden, the Department conducts a preclearance consultation program to 
provide the public and Federal agencies with an opportunity to comment 
on proposed and continuing collections of information in accordance 
with the PRA. See 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(A). This activity helps to 
ensure that the public understands the Department's collection 
instructions, respondents can provide the requested data in the desired 
format, reporting burden (time and financial resources) is minimized, 
collection instruments are clearly understood, and the Department can 
properly assess the impact of collection requirements on respondents.
    A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor a collection of 
information unless it is approved by OMB under the PRA and it displays 
a currently valid OMB control number. The public is also not required 
to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a 
currently valid OMB control number. In addition, notwithstanding any 
other provisions of law, no person will be subject to penalty for 
failing to comply with a collection of information if the collection of 
information does not display a currently valid OMB control number (44 
U.S.C. 3512).
    Comments: An individual commenter said that the lack of a cost-
benefit analysis has implications for the PRA.
    Response: This final rule does not require any specific data 
collection subject to the PRA. If any information is to be collected 
under this authority, it would be subject to the PRA and must meet any 
applicable requirements.

D. Executive Order 13132 (Federalism)

    E.O. 13132, ``Federalism,'' 64 FR 43255 (Aug. 10, 1999), imposes 
certain requirements on Federal agencies formulating and implementing 
policies or regulations that preempt State law or that have Federalism 
implications. E.O. 13132 requires agencies to examine the 
constitutional and statutory authority supporting any action that would 
limit the policymaking discretion of the States and to carefully assess 
the necessity for such actions. E.O. 13132 also requires agencies to 
have an accountable process to ensure meaningful and timely input by 
State and local officials in the development of regulatory policies 
that have Federalism implications. The Department has reviewed this 
final rule in light of these requirements and has concluded that it 
meets the requirements of E.O. 13132.
    Accordingly, the Department has reviewed this final rule and has 
concluded that the rulemaking has no substantial direct effects on 
States, the relationship between the Federal Government and the States, 
or the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various 
levels of government as described by E.O. 13132. Therefore, the 
Department has concluded that this final rule does not have a 
sufficient federalism implication to require further agency action or 
analysis.
    Comments: An advocacy organization stated that the August 2025 NPRM 
did not comply with E.O. 13132 because it did not limit the preemption 
of State law to the minimum level necessary, has no evidence of 
consultation with State and local officials while providing only a 30-
day comment period, and provides no indication that funds necessary to 
pay the direct costs incurred in complying with the regulation would be 
provided to States by the Federal Government (as required by section 
6(b)(1) of E.O. 13132).
    An advocacy organization and a union argued that by imposing 
uniform, required disclosure requirements, the August 2025 NPRM would 
undermine the balance of Federal-State authority. Further, the union 
asserted that the NPRM was unconstitutional, conflicted with State 
privacy laws, and federalism requires these conflicts to be resolved by 
Congress.
    Response: This final rule does not alter the allowable scope of 
disclosures of confidential UC data to Federal officials. The 
disclosures required by this final rule are already permissible 
disclosures under the existing regulations. Since this final rule does 
not substantially alter the scope of the disclosures, E.O. 13132 does 
not require further consultation with State and local officials beyond 
the normal comment period within the rulemaking process. Such 
disclosures are part of the normal business of the administration of UC 
programs and would be allowable uses of UC administrative funding.
    This final rule also does not modify the protections or limitations 
on use of data that are applicable to required disclosures. This rule 
merely changes the disclosure from one that a State is permitted to 
make to one that the State is required to make. As discussed above, the 
Department has the statutory authority to change these disclosures from 
permissive disclosures to mandatory disclosures
    Although this rule does not have Federalism implications and does 
not require further consultation with State and local officials beyond 
the normal comment period within the rulemaking process, the Department 
has nevertheless pursued such consultation. The Department published 
the 2023 RFI, which said ``[t]he Department is considering a regulatory 
update to 20 CFR part 603 that would incorporate a requirement for 
States to disclose confidential UC information to [DOL-OIG] for 
oversight and audits.'' See 88 FR 47829 (July 25, 2023). The 2023 RFI 
included questions on the topic and afforded the regulated community an 
opportunity to comment. Additionally, the Department's unique 
relationship with the States requires regular consultation and 
collaboration with State partners, including on matters pertaining to 
disclosures of confidential UC information under part 603.

E. Unfunded Mandates Reform Act

    Title II of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (UMRA) (Pub. 
L. 104-4) requires each Federal agency to assess the effects of Federal 
regulatory actions on State, local, and Tribal governments and the 
private sector. 2 U.S.C. 1531. For a regulatory action likely to result 
in a rule that includes any Federal mandate that may cause the 
expenditure by State, local, and Tribal governments, in the aggregate, 
or by the private sector of $100 million or more in any one year 
(adjusted annually for inflation), UMRA requires a Federal agency to 
publish a written statement that estimates the resulting costs, 
benefits, and other effects on the national economy. (2 U.S.C. 1532(a), 
(b)). Relating to small governments, UMRA requires an agency plan for 
giving notice and opportunity for timely input to potentially affected 
small governments before establishing any requirements that might 
significantly or uniquely affect them. Such plan must include an 
effective process to permit timely input by elected officers of State, 
local, and Tribal governments on

[[Page 58609]]

significant Federal intergovernmental mandates.
    The Department examined this final rule according to UMRA and its 
statement of policy and determined that this final rule does not 
contain a Federal intergovernmental mandate, nor is it expected to 
require expenditures of $100 million or more in any one year by State, 
local, and Tribal governments, in the aggregate, or by the private 
sector. Furthermore, because this rule does not impose a Federal 
intergovernmental mandate, this rule does not significantly or uniquely 
affect small governments. As a result, the requirements of UMRA do not 
apply.
    Comments: Some unions, an advocacy organization, an individual 
commenter, and an anonymous commenter stated the August 2025 NPRM would 
be an unfunded mandate. A union critiqued the Department's reasoning 
that the August 2025 NPRM would not trigger UMRA's requirements due to 
impact of less than $100 million annually when it also states that it 
cannot quantify the State costs. The commenter further asserted that 
unfunded mandates in the NPRM would force States to fund Federal 
surveillance infrastructure out of their own administrative budgets. 
Challenging the adequacy of the NPRM's UMRA analysis, a union cautioned 
that ``[c]ertifying compliance without quantification is arbitrary and 
capricious under the APA.''
    Response: As described in section IV.A.3 of this preamble, the 
Department believes that compliance with this rule should impose 
minimal costs on States. The Department expects that many States will 
not encounter the need for significant technology updates, as States 
are already providing the data to Federal officials, including the 
Department and DOL-OIG, for purposes of UC program oversight and audits 
under the permissible disclosure in the existing regulations. Although 
commenters took issue with the Department's position that this rule 
does not trigger UMRA's analytical requirements due to its impact of 
less than $100 million in any one year by State, local, and Tribal 
governments, in the aggregate, or by the private sector, they did not 
provide alternate analysis or data to support the position that this 
rule would require expenditures of $100 million or more in any one 
year. The Department maintains its position that this rule does not 
contain a Federal intergovernmental mandate, nor is it expected to 
require expenditures of $100 million or more in any one year by State, 
local, and Tribal governments, in the aggregate, or by the private 
sector.
    Additionally, this rule amends Sec.  603.8 to clarify that 
disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight and audit are 
chargeable to a State's UC administrative grant.
    To the commenter's concern that ``[c]ertifying compliance without 
quantification is arbitrary and capricious under the APA,'' the 
Department notes that the scope of this final rule is limited. All 
State UC agencies already provide confidential UC information for 
purposes of UC program oversight and audits to Federal officials, 
including the Department and DOL-OIG, through permissible disclosures. 
Regarding certification under UMRA, the Department conducted an 
economic analysis to determine the costs of this final rule as provided 
in section IV.A.3 of this preamble. Although data availability prevents 
the Department from fully estimating these costs, the Department does 
not expect this final rule to require expenditures of $100 million or 
more in any one year by State, local, and Tribal governments, in the 
aggregate, or by the private sector. States are currently processing 
permissible disclosure requests from Federal officials, so any 
additional costs would arise from the change to these being required 
disclosures, which are expected to be roughly equivalent to the current 
number of permissible disclosures for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits.
    For these reasons, the requirements of title II of UMRA do not 
apply. Therefore, DOL has not prepared a statement under UMRA.

F. Executive Order 13175 (Indian Tribal Governments)

    The Department has reviewed this final rule under the terms of E.O. 
13175 and the Department's Tribal Consultation Policy and has concluded 
that the changes to regulatory text do not have Tribal implications. 
These changes do not have substantial direct effects on one or more 
federally recognized Indian Tribes, the relationship between the 
Federal Government and Indian Tribes, nor the distribution of power and 
responsibilities between the Federal Government and Tribal governments.
    Comments: An advocacy organization asserted that the August 2025 
NPRM did not indicate input was solicited from Tribal officials and 
thus did not comply with E.O. 13175. Additionally, the commenter said 
the Department's conclusion that there would be no direct effect on 
Indian Tribes is incorrect because they employ 355,000 workers and are 
part of the Federal-State UC system.
    Response: The Department maintains its position that the changes to 
regulatory text do not have Tribal implications. This rule requires the 
disclosure of information that is currently disclosed by States to 
Federal officials on a permissive basis for purposes of UC program 
oversight and audits. This rule does not change the scope of 
disclosures under the existing regulation, nor does it modify the 
current protections or limitations on the use of the data subject to 
the required disclosures. This rule therefore does not have substantial 
direct effects on one or more federally recognized Indian Tribes, the 
relationship between the Federal Government and Indian Tribes, nor the 
distribution of power and responsibilities between the Federal 
Government and Tribal governments. The Department notes that it 
conducted a Tribal consultation in 2023 related to the broadly scoped 
2023 RFI (88 FR 53928, July 25, 2023).

List of Subjects in 20 CFR Part 603

    Unemployment compensation, Wages.

    For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Department of Labor 
amends 20 CFR part 603 as follows:

PART 603--FEDERAL-STATE UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION (UC) PROGRAM; 
CONFIDENTIALITY AND DISCLOSURE OF STATE UC INFORMATION

0
1. The authority citation for part 603 is revised to read as follows:

    Authority: 42 U.S.C. 503(a)(1); 42 U.S.C. 1302; 29 U.S.C. 3141; 
29 U.S.C. 3249; 29 U.S.C. 3343; 20 U.S.C. 1232g.


0
2. Amend Sec.  603.5 by:
0
a. Revising the introductory text; and
0
b. Removing paragraph (i).
    The revision reads as follows:


Sec.  603.5  What are the exceptions to the confidentiality 
requirement?

    The following are exceptions to the confidentiality requirement. 
Disclosure of confidential UC information is permissible under the 
exceptions in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section only if 
authorized by State law and if such disclosure does not interfere with 
the efficient administration of the State UC law. Disclosure of 
confidential UC information is permissible under the exception in 
paragraph (h) of this section without such restrictions.
* * * * *

0
3. Amend Sec.  603.6 by:
0
a. Redesignating paragraph (c) as paragraph (d); and

[[Page 58610]]

0
b. Adding a new paragraph (c).
    The addition reads as follows:


Sec.  603.6   What disclosures are required by this subpart?

* * * * *
    (c) The Department of Labor interprets section 303(a)(1), SSA, as 
requiring each State UC agency to disclose confidential UC information 
upon request to a Federal official for purposes of UC program oversight 
and audits.
* * * * *

0
4. Amend Sec.  603.8 by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows:


Sec.  603.8   What are the requirements for payment of costs and 
program income?

* * * * *
    (b) Use of grant funds permitted. Grant funds paid to a State under 
section 302(a), SSA, may be used to pay the costs of only those 
disclosures necessary for proper administration of the UC program. 
(This may include some disclosures under Sec.  603.5(a) (concerning 
public domain information), Sec.  603.5(c) (to an individual or 
employer), and Sec.  603.5(d)(1) (to an agent).) In addition, grant 
funds may be used to pay costs of disclosures under Sec.  603.6(a) (for 
the proper administration of the UC program) and Sec.  603.6(c) (for UC 
Program Oversight and Audits). Grant funds may also be used to pay 
costs associated with disclosures under Sec.  603.7(b)(1) (concerning 
court-ordered compliance with subpoenas) if a court has denied recovery 
of costs, or to pay costs associated with disclosures under Sec.  
603.7(b)(2) (to officials with subpoena authority) if the State UC 
agency has attempted but not been successful in obtaining reimbursement 
of costs. Finally, grant funds may be used to pay costs associated with 
any disclosure of UC information if not more than an incidental amount 
of staff time and no more than nominal processing costs are involved in 
making the disclosure.
* * * * *

0
5. Amend Sec.  603.10 by adding paragraph (e) to read as follows:


Sec.  603.10  What are the requirements for agreements?

* * * * *
    (e) Request requirements for required disclosures to certain 
Federal officials. Federal officials, other than the Department of 
Labor, the Department of Labor--Office of Inspector General, and the 
Government Accountability Office, making a request for information from 
the State UC agency pursuant to Sec.  603.6(c) must do so in writing to 
the State UC agency stating how the information will be used and how 
that use is for purposes of UC program oversight and audits; stating 
that the Federal official will limit their use of the information to 
those uses stated in the request, except as required by Federal law; 
and citing the Federal official's authority for UC program oversight 
and audits.

Marek Laco,
Acting Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, Labor.
[FR Doc. 2026-18978 Filed 9-15-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4510-FW-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>